Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring and Representing the Knowledge Economy: Accounting for Economic Reality Under the Intangibles Paradigm

Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 54, No. 1, 2006

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 04-14

104 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2004

Olufunmilayo Arewa

Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University

Abstract

Enron has become a symbol: a symbol of excess, an illustration of how a company can base its business on fraudulent, deceptive or even largely non-existent business transactions. The collapse of Enron had a significant impact on the adoption of legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which was intended to prevent the types of fraudulent behavior that occurred at Enron. However, Sarbanes-Oxley and other responses to the business practices of many companies during the late 1990s do not fully address some of the underlying factors that permitted and in fact encouraged the Enrons of the world to represent their companies in a particular fashion. Such legal interventions further do not address underlying factors rooted in the fact that many companies now operate within the context of knowledge economy intangibles paradigm business practices. Current securities law disclosure frameworks are largely based on an implicit assumption about the nature of companies' business operations. Such frameworks were developed during a time period in which the principal business model was one based on the exploitation of tangible assets. Since the latter half of the twentieth century and the advent of the knowledge economy or digital era, an increasing number of companies have begun operating under businesses models in which the predominant source of value comes from intangible resources. As a result of this fundamental change in business models, an intangibles "haze" has come to characterize the application of securities disclosure and accounting rules. This intangibles haze has meant that securities disclosures made by such companies, particularly as reflected in financial statements such as balance sheets, increasingly do not reflect underlying economic reality.

Keywords: Intangibles, Legal Framework, Accounting, Cisco, Enron, Wal-Mart

JEL Classification: K20, K40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Arewa, Olufunmilayo, Measuring and Representing the Knowledge Economy: Accounting for Economic Reality Under the Intangibles Paradigm. Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 54, No. 1, 2006, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 04-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=589205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.589205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Leonard Nakamura
One Trillion Dollars a Year! 4 (Fed. Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
see also M.M. Croes, Data for Intangibles in Selected OECD Countries Posted: 2000
; Nakamura , Julie L Davis &amp; , Suzanne S Harrison , Edison In , Boardroom
Letter from Baruch Lev, Professor of Accounting and Finance
The core works in this body of work were originally published in the 1980s and 1990s. See Posted: 2001
Robert S Kaplan &amp; , David P Norton , Strategy Maps
CONVERTING INTANGIBLE ASSETS INTO TANGIBLE OUTCOMES Posted: 2004
Kevin G
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
777
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,486
RANK
73,926
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies