Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pressures on the Auditor to Attest to Misleading and Fraudulent Accounting Information: A Rational Economic Model

,

32 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2004

Paul A. Barnes

Nottingham Trent University

Abstract

This paper uses a rational economic model to examine auditors' decisions about the implied value of the client company where he/she attempts to balance the costs and benefits (in the sense of saved costs) arising from legal actions for negligence, reputational effects and the threat of an audit switch, in an attempt to satisfy the client company's wishes. It is shown how the relative bargaining power of the auditor and the client affect the outcome together with the likelihood of the discovery of misleading or fraudulent information. It is also shown how a 'rogue auditor' may take advantage of the low probability of the latter to make additional profits and how in certain economic conditions, auditors may be forced to attest to financial information that they may otherwise consider to be misleading.

Keywords: auditor, fraud, misleading information

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Paul A., Pressures on the Auditor to Attest to Misleading and Fraudulent Accounting Information: A Rational Economic Model. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=614922 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.614922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "Lemons": quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
B Arrunada
The economics of audit quality: private incentives and the regulation of audit and non-audit services Posted: 1999
P Barnes
Bambers Stores plc', in Case Studies in Financial Analysis , p. 8 - 43 Posted: 1991
P Barnes
The auditor's going concern decision and types I and II errors: the Coase theorem, transaction costs, bargaining power and attempts to mislead
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,087
RANK
319,999
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Relation between Auditors' Fees for Non-Audit Services and Earnings Management

By Richard M. Frankel, Marilyn F. Johnson, ...

Do Non-Audit Service Fees Impair Auditor Independence? Evidence from Going-Concern Audit Opinions

By Mark L. Defond, Kannan Raghunandan, ...

An Economic Analysis of Auditor Independence for a Multi-Client, Multi-Service Public Accounting Firm

By Rick Antle, Paul A. Griffin, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies