Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stock Options and Managers' Incentives to Cheat

46 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2005

Marc Chesney

University of Zurich - Department of Banking and Finance

Rajna Gibson

University of Geneva - Geneva Finance Research Institute (GFRI); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: January 11, 2005

Abstract

In this paper, we use a continuous-time contingent claims framework to study managers' incentives to cheat in the presence of equity-based compensation policies. When we consider a fully predictable legal process, we observe that managers will always have incentives to engage in illicit activities. The exercise of the option to cheat will be postponed if the corruption costs or if the manager's reputational loss increases. We further show that managers incentives to cheat are delayed and can even be eliminated when the legal settlement date is non-predictable. An important result is that managers will always cheat sooner with stock options than with a cash equivalent remuneration consisting of stocks. Finally, we propose a new remuneration package that consists of both long calls and short puts written on the firm's stocks in order to reduce managers incentives to cheat.

Keywords: Executive compensation, fraud, incentives, stock options

JEL Classification: G13, G30

Suggested Citation:

Chesney, Marc and Gibson, Rajna, Stock Options and Managers' Incentives to Cheat (January 11, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=651207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.651207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Black Fisher , Myron Scholes
The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities
Journal of Political Economy , volume 31 , p. 637 - 654
Jennifer Carpenter
Does Option Compensation Increase Managerial Risk Appetite?
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 5 , p. 2311 - 2332 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Jennifer Carpenter
The Exercise and Valuation of Executive Stock Options
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 48 , p. 127 - 158 Posted: 1998
Core John , E , Wayne R Guay , David F Larcker
Executive Equity Compensation and Incentives : A Survey
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review , p. 27 - 50
Load more
3 Citations
Langnan Chen , Weibin Lin
Corporate governance and fraud: Evidence from China
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 4 , issue 3 , p. 139 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Shane A. Johnson , Harley E. Ryan , Yisong Sam Tian
Managerial Incentives and Corporate Fraud: The Sources of Incentives Matter
EFA 2006 Zurich Meetings · 40 Pages · Posted: 2 Jun 2006 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2011 · Downloads: 3,805
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rasha Kassem
Exploring external auditors’ perceptions of the motivations behind management fraud in Egypt – a mixed methods approach
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 16 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,496
RANK
331,544
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Leadership Selection & Compensation eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies