Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Forensic Study of Daewoo's Corporate Governance: Does Responsibility Solely Lie With the Chaebol and Korea?

Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business, Vol. 28, No. 3

96 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2005

Joongi Kim

Yonsei Law School / College of Law

Abstract

In 1999, the Daewoo Group, one of the largest conglomerates in the world, collapsed, committing a staggering $15.3 billion in accounting fraud in the process. Daewoo's problems, however, did not remain a case isolated to a Korean chaebol. Daewoo's demise foreshadowed the corporate scandals that recently ravaged confidence in financial markets around the world. Leading financial institutions, investment banks, securities analysts, accounting firms, and credit agencies failed to monitor and detect Daewoo's problems. Despite warnings from the Daewoo case, policy discussion focusing on the importance of reputational intermediaries and gatekeepers in particular has only recently emerged. This forensic study analyzes the history of Daewoo, one of Korea's major chaebols, focusing on these vast corporate governance failures. It surveys Daewoo's internal corporate governance, particularly its controlling shareholder, boards of directors, officers, employees, and auditors. Furthermore, the external corporate governance landscape and the failure of key stakeholders, reputational intermediaries, gatekeepers, and public institutions are explored. By analyzing a conglomerate from a leading emerging market, this study also contributes to the comparative corporate governance literature regarding the potential for convergence, and the importance of formal law and enforcement. It describes how Korean companies have converged toward a more shareholder-oriented and stakeholder-oriented corporate governance model from a state-oriented model. It explains the ineffective corporate governance system in place at the time of Asian financial crisis and the background behind the legal reforms that followed. Finally, this study highlights the emergence of functional substitutes to formal corporate law that have been critical to legal enforcement and creating corporate governance discipline.

Keywords: Corporate Governance Chaebol Korea Daewoo

JEL Classification: G30, G34, K14, K22, K33, L52, M10, M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Joongi, A Forensic Study of Daewoo's Corporate Governance: Does Responsibility Solely Lie With the Chaebol and Korea?. Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business, Vol. 28, No. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=760064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
Friedman
Crossref
Chae-Shick Chung &amp; Se-Jik Kim
New Evidence on High Interest Rate Policy During the Korean Financial Crisis
KOREAN CRISIS AND RECOVERY, supra note 5 , p. 137 - 156
Lee
Crossref
Michael Schuman , &amp; Jane Lee , South Korea , ; J Wall S
Eager to Shed its Old Ways, Allows a Corporate Empire's Overhaul, ASIAN Posted: 1999-08-17
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,131
RANK
39,256
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies