Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Risk Perspective on Fraudulent Financial Reporting

Canadian Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 7, No. 3, 2008

45 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2006 Last revised: 10 Aug 2008

Wally Smieliauskas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: October 1, 2005

Abstract

This paper analyzes the relationship of fraud risk assessments to other risk assessments by auditors. The PCAOB (2005, 17) notes this is a problem area of current practice. The major findings are as follows. First, the study identifies the crucial role of benchmarks in forensic accounting to help differentiate between intentional and unintentional misstatements. Second, the paper shows the importance of not allowing the major categories of risks identified here from getting too high. This explains the need to set acceptable levels of these risks either by standard setters as a matter of broad policy, or by individual practitioners as part of the terms of specific engagements. Third, this paper clarifies how the fraud risk of SAS No. 99 relates to the traditional audit risk model framework.

Keywords: fraud, accounting, auditing, risk, financial reporting

JEL Classification: D81, M49, M41, M43, G38

Suggested Citation:

Smieliauskas, Wally, A Risk Perspective on Fraudulent Financial Reporting (October 1, 2005). Canadian Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 7, No. 3, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=873520 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.873520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
To some extent accounting theory and standards are already risk based. For example, it is implicit as a general principle that an asset concept meets certain minimum probabilities of realization of future benefits (see exposure draft on Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, pages i-v). With respect to liabilities see FASB 5 para. 3 and its influence in evaluating internal controls , p. 6 - 7 Posted: 2005
As Helmer , Rescher
39) have noted, in "inexact' fields such as auditing and accounting the logical reasoning is very much engagement -specific, depending on the context of the situation the logical argumentation involving financial reporting issues can take a quite different direction Posted: 1959
AICPA (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants). 1999. News report
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 2011-02
D Alexander
A benchmark for the adequacy of published financial statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , p. 239 - 253 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,952
RANK
32,322
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies