Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing New Jersey's Anti-Terrorism Laws to Prevent Terrorist Financing: A Statutory Analysis of the Material Support or Resources Provisions of the September 11, 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act and the Freezing Funds and Assets Related to Terrorism Legislation in the New Jersey Criminal Code

Seton Hall Legislative Journal, Vol. 29, p. 85, 2004

56 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2006 Last revised: 6 Jan 2009

James B. Johnston

Seton Hall Law School

Abstract

Since the attacks on 9/11, terrorist financing investigations have become an integral part of America's counter-terrorism strategy. The 9/11 hijackers received money from al-Qaeda through American Banks and Institutions. Prior to 9/11, al-Qaeda operatives, including the hijackers, obtained money from their co-conspirators by conducting financial transactions in various parts of the United States, including New Jersey branches of several banks. Subsequent to 9/11 the New Jersey Legislature signed off on powerful terrorist financing legislation with the Material Support or Resources provisions of the September 11, 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act and the asset seizure provisions of the Freezing Funds and Assets Related to Terrorism Act. This article examines both sets of statutes and through a case study provide an illustration of a sound implementation of these statutes. The article also examines America's balancing act in apprehending terrorist financiers, while simutaneously protecting the public's civil liberties.

Suggested Citation:

Johnston, James B., Implementing New Jersey's Anti-Terrorism Laws to Prevent Terrorist Financing: A Statutory Analysis of the Material Support or Resources Provisions of the September 11, 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act and the Freezing Funds and Assets Related to Terrorism Legislation in the New Jersey Criminal Code. Seton Hall Legislative Journal, Vol. 29, p. 85, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=953214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
N J Stat , Ann
See State v. One 1979 Pontiac Sunbird
N.J. Super , volume 2
Div
1983) (stating that "the in rem nature of the proceeding which is considered as directed against the thing itself, not merely the possessor's interest in it
stating that "statutory forfeiture is limited to the property itself which is proceeded against, and, by resort to a legal fiction, held guilty and condemned as though it were conscious instead of inanimate and insentient.") (internal citations omitted). For example, in standard criminal litigation the case caption in New Jersey is "State v. John Defendant , volume 225 Posted: 1990
* n242. State v. One 1985 Ford Bronco, 261 N
Seton Hall Legis. J , volume 85 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,898
RANK
377,290
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Seton Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Criminal Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies