Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking Back and Looking Forward: Sarbanes-Oxley and the Future of Corporate Governance

Akron Law Review, Vol. 40, p. 1, 2007

53 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2007

Scott Harshbarger

Proskauer

Goutam U. Jois

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Corporate governance has received significant media attention over the past few years. From the spectacular bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom to the white-collar criminal trials of Kenneth Lay, Martha Stewart, and Bernie Ebbers, Americans watched Corporate America hit one of its lowest points. Fraud, self-dealing and deception, among other "worst practices," seem to have become widespread.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was passed in 2002 in reaction to those corporate scandals, but its future is now uncertain. All debates hinge on two fundamental assumptions: that business leaders and regulators are natural enemies and that one of those groups must be "right" and the other "wrong" in this new climate of oversight and regulation.

Instead, we argue that the groups should recognize a common goal - a competitive, ethical corporate culture - and work collaboratively toward it, a situation that benefits both businesses and government. Indeed, honest companies are one of the first casualties of corporate malfeasance, and fewer enforcement actions mean fewer government resources expended. We suggest several areas where this type of collaboration might work, point to successful instances of such collaboration, and identify areas for future development in the area of corporate governance.

Every year, academics, business leaders, and a chorus of others grumble about regulation in general and Sarbanes-Oxley in particular. Yet the progression of scandals has continued unabated, from aggressive accounting to tax shelters to backdated options. Surely, markets must be allowed to work; however, the practical question and the policy question is how best to make markets work for the benefits of all Americans, not just those who hold the money and the power.

Recent corporate debacles are simply one in a pattern of failures of leadership in American institutions. By aggressively acting to create an ethical, competitive corporate culture, business leaders can be among the first to reverse that tide.

Keywords: corporate governance, Sarbanes Oxley, corporate law, business law, finance, capital markets, markets, regulation, public policy, legislation

Suggested Citation:

Harshbarger, Scott and Jois, Goutam U., Looking Back and Looking Forward: Sarbanes-Oxley and the Future of Corporate Governance. Akron Law Review, Vol. 40, p. 1, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=974758
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
E G See , Parija Bhatnagar
Wal-Mart Closes 123 Stores from Storm, CNNMONEY Posted: 2005-08-31
E G See , Scott Shane
After Failures, Officials Play Blame Game
N.Y. TIMES , volume 1 Posted: 2005
E G See , From Don , Davenport
What does this say about a nation that turns to WalMart for relief supplies? The 202
Procomm Consulting Group, to authors , volume 10 Posted: 2005
Hiawatha Bray
Tyco to Cut Jobs, Consolidate Troubled Company is Hoping to Save $125M Annually, Trim $27B Debt load Tyco to Sell Buildings, Aircraft, Pay Debt Posted: 2002-06-14
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,617
RANK
124,488
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies