Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Material Accounting Misstatements

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

AAA 2008 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper

72 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2007 Last revised: 24 May 2010

Patricia Dechow

USC Marshall School of Business

Weili Ge

University of Washington - Michael G. Foster School of Business

Chad R. Larson

University of Houston - Department of Accountancy & Taxation

Richard G. Sloan

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: April 21, 2010

Abstract

We examine 2,190 SEC Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) issued between 1982 and 2005. We obtain a comprehensive sample of firms that are alleged to have misstated their financial statements. We examine the characteristics of misstating firms along five dimensions: accrual quality, financial performance, non-financial measures, off-balance sheet activities, and market-based measures. We compare misstating firms to themselves during non-misstatement years and misstating firms to the broader population of all publicly listed firms. We find that managers appear to be hiding diminishing performance during misstatement years. We find that accruals are high and that misstating firms have a greater proportion of assets with valuations that are more subject to managerial discretion. In addition, the extent of leasing is increasing and there are abnormal reductions in the number of employees. Misstating firms are raising more financing, have higher price-to-fundamental ratios, and have strong prior stock price performance. We develop a model to predict accounting misstatements. The output of this model is a scaled logistic probability that we term the F-Score, where values greater than one suggest a greater likelihood of a misstatement.

Keywords: earnings quality, accounting misstatement, fraud prediction, accrual quality, F-Score

JEL Classification: G34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dechow, Patricia and Ge, Weili and Larson, Chad Russell and Sloan, Richard G., Predicting Material Accounting Misstatements (April 21, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, AAA 2008 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=997483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Eric J. Allen , Chad Russell Larson , Richard G. Sloan
Accrual Reversals, Earnings and Stock Returns
Pages: 47 Posted: 29 Sep 2009 Last revised: 11 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
J Barton , P Simko
The balance sheet as an earnings management constraint
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2002
Crossref
L Bayley , S Taylor
Identifying earnings overstatements: A practical test. Working paper Posted: 2007
Load more
74 Citations
Mei Feng , Weili Ge , Shuqing Luo , Terry J. Shevlin
Why do CFOs Become Involved in Material Accounting Manipulations?
AAA 2009 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper · 43 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2008 · Last revised: 29 Jan 2013 · Downloads: 3,212
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jeffrey Ng , Tjomme O. Rusticus
Banks' Survival during the Financial Crisis: The Role of Regulatory Reporting Quality
Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2 · 57 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2011 · Last revised: 14 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 916
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xia Chen , Qiang Cheng , Alvis K. Lo
Is the Decline in the Information Content of Earnings Following Restatements Short-Lived?
Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper · 55 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2013 · Last revised: 28 May 2013 · Downloads: 448
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sanjay Bissessur , David Veenman
Analyst Information Precision and Small Earnings Surprises
Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 21, No. 4, 2016 · 46 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2013 · Last revised: 26 Jul 2017 · Downloads: 475
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16,214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
64,497
RANK
566
74 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies