Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AIFRS - A Practitioner's Viewpoint

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 9-19, 2007

14 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2007

Wayne Lonergan

University of Sydney

Abstract

This paper addresses a range of contemporary financial reporting issues from a practitioner's viewpoint. Rules relating to the accounting and reporting for goodwill and its impairment are subjected to a forensic review, and found wanting. In particular, the concern is expressed that the implementation of AIFRS rules for accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangibles will yield potentially misleading results, at odds with any discernable thread of logic or principle. Alternative treatments to those embedded in the accounting standards reviewed are contemplated as part of an argument for an alternative future reporting regime.

Keywords: financial reporting, IFRS, goodwill, impairment, intangible assets

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lonergan, Wayne, AIFRS - A Practitioner's Viewpoint. Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 9-19, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1012238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,496
RANK
106,137
14 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies