Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adverse Effects of Uniform Written Reporting Standards on Accounting Practice, Education, and Research

36 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2007 Last revised: 27 May 2009

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 7, 2009

Abstract

When transactions have multiple attributes, achieving uniformity in their classification depends on whether similarities or dissimilarities are of interest; uniformity with respect to both is not possible. The pursuit of uniform written standards at the expense of social norms diminishes the effectiveness of financial reporting in stewardship and governance, and in keeping the security markets informed. A shift to written standards discourages thoughtful classroom discourse on alternatives which develop professional judgment. It also engenders "by the book" attitudes and drives talent away from accounting programs and, ultimately, from the accounting profession. Judgment and personal responsibility being the hallmarks of a learned profession, the dominance of uniform written standards weakens the claim that accounting programs belong in universities alongside architecture, dentistry, engineering, law, and medicine. Uniformity discourages research and debate in academic and practice forums and promotes increasingly detailed rule-making. It shuts the door on learning through experimentation, making it difficult to discover better ways of financial reporting through practice and comparison of alternatives. Improved financial reporting calls for a careful balance between written standards and unwritten social norms.

Keywords: Accounting standards, uniformity, profession, practice, education, research

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Adverse Effects of Uniform Written Reporting Standards on Accounting Practice, Education, and Research (April 7, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1028517 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1028517
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
W T Baxter
Recommendations on Accounting Theory
The Accountant. Reprinted in Studies in Accounting Theory Posted: 1953
Davidson
, p. 414 - 427 Posted: 1962
J Coleman
Foundations of Social Theory Posted: 1990
Karen S Cook
Trust in Society Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
667
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,175
RANK
90,077
6 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Minding Our Manners: Accounting as Social Norms

By Shyam Sunder

Enforced Standards versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. and the U.K.

By Shyam Sunder, Michael S. Maier, ...

Enforced Standards Versus Evolution by General Acceptance: A Comparative Study of E-Commerce Privacy Disclosure and Practice in the U.S. And the U.K.

By Karim Jamal, Michael S. Maier, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies