Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Services as Capital Contributions: Understanding Kovacik v. Reed

20 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2007 Last revised: 27 Jan 2008

Royce de Rohan Barondes

University of Missouri-Columbia School of Law

Date Written: December 4, 2007

Abstract

This essay examines the capital accounting of Kovacik v. Reed, leading authority addressing allocation of losses between a partner who contributed only property and another who contributed only services. Kovacik posits that such parties having agreed to share profits equally have implicitly agreed their contributions were of equal value. This essay shows that such an agreement would not produce the result Kovacik reaches. The Kovacik result is instead produced by the following implausible implicit agreement between the parties: The value of the services provided by the services partner to be treated as a capital contribution equals the amount the partnership loses on a cash basis. The more the firm ultimately loses, the more those services are agreed to be worth. Prior work by Bainbridge identifies a manifestation in this context of a problem referenced as overinvestment in the financial economics literature. This essay further demonstrates the Kovacik result can create a complementary underinvestment problem.

Keywords: Partnership, services partner, capital contribution, allocation of losses, underinvestment

JEL Classification: K20

Suggested Citation:

Barondes, Royce de Rohan, Services as Capital Contributions: Understanding Kovacik v. Reed (December 4, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1056921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1056921
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Byron D Sher &amp; Alan , R Bromberg
Texas Partnership Law in the 20 th Century-Why Texas Should Adopt the Uniform Partnership Act, 12 SW
L. J , volume 263 Posted: 1958
Bainbridge
, volume 650 , p. 662 - 65
C Michael , H Jensen &amp; William , Meckling
Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure, 3
J. FIN. ECON , volume 305 Posted: 1976
Bainbridge
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,499
RANK
371,877
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law: LLCs, Close Corporations, Partnerships, & Other Private Enterprises eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies