Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practitioners' Opinions on Academics' Critics on the Balanced Scorecard

27 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2008

Diogo Santiago da Silva Pessanha

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Victor Prochnik

Institute of Economics, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This article presents a survey on the critics to the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) implementation in private organizations and the opinion of Brazilian executives from three different enterprises about these critics. As for Kaplan and Norton (1997) proposal, some outlines were not followed by the interviewed companies, such as the broad communication of BSC to employees and the budget process integration (still prevailing) to the strategic planning. The analysis of the model's critiques led to the elaboration of 18 questions. This questionnaire is a useful management tool that can be applied by both practitioners and researchers to access and/or compare the BSC implementation in different organizations. The managers agreed with at least one third of these critics. For instance, interviewees agree that cause-and-effect linear relation tends to simplify reality. Also, financial measures are still more important than those non-financial. As the major explanation for the BSC implementation is exactly to reduce the emphasis on the assistance of financial measures, this issue will continue to be discussed.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, strategy implementation, management control systems, performance measurement, accounting systems

JEL Classification: M00, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Pessanha, Diogo Santiago da Silva and Prochnik, Victor, Practitioners' Opinions on Academics' Critics on the Balanced Scorecard (2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1094308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1094308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Posted: 1998
/ Irwin , Mcgraw-Hill
Posted: 1998
V C Castro , V ; A Prochnik , S R Letza , B Neale
A implantação e uso do balanced scorecard em uma instituição financeira no Brasil; mimeo , p. 242 - 253 Posted: 1997
F M Carvalho , L N Dias , V Prochnik
A utilização do Balanced Scorecard em hospitais: o caso do Hospital Nove de Julho; IX Congresso Internacional de Custos Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,627
RANK
15,115
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Communicating and Controlling Strategy: An Empirical Study of the Effectiveness of the Balanced Scorecard

By Mary A. Malina and Frank H. Selto

The Advantages of Using Earnings for Compensation: Matching Delivered Performance

By Michael J. Barclay, Dhananjay (dan) K. Gode, ...

The Advantages of Using Earnings for Compensation: Matching Delivered Performance

By Michael J. Barclay, Dan Gode, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies