Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Flexible Scheduling in Public Accounting

Journal of Accounting Education, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 145-158, 1997

14 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2008 Last revised: 9 Oct 2009

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Abstract

Recently, many major public accounting firms have implemented flexible scheduling programs in order to improve their retention and promotion of female professionals. This case, which is based on interviews with Human Resources and Auditing personnel at a major firm, provides students with the opportunity to examine the costs and benefits of such a program. It highlights the importance of judgment, ethics and decision-making skills in situations where the financial impact is difficult to measure, and complements more traditional cases in the "special decisions" sections of the cost and managerial accounting courses.

Keywords: Flexible Scheduling, Public Accounting, Case Material

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R., Flexible Scheduling in Public Accounting. Journal of Accounting Education, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 145-158, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1099317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
The first course in accounting: position statement no
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 249 - 251
Women's status and work/family initiatives in public accounting
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Posted: 1994
J Alter
Retaining women CPA's Journal of Accountancy , volume 50 Posted: 1991
P Basu , J Cohen
Learning to learn in the accounting principles course: outcome assessment of an integrative business analysis project
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 12 , p. 359 - 374 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,784
RANK
168,175
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Examination of the Perceived Impact of Flexible Work Arrangements on Professional Opportunities in Public Accounting

By Jeffrey R. Cohen and Louise E. Single

Is it the Kids or the Schedule?: The Incremental Effect of Families and Flexible Scheduling on Perceived Career Success

By Elizabeth Dreike Almer, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

Flexible Working Arrangement and Stress Management Training in Mitigating Auditor’s Burnout: An Experimental Study

By Intiyas Utami and Dr. Supriyadi

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies