Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Perceived Impact of Flexible Work Arrangements on Professional Opportunities in Public Accounting

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 32, pp. 317-328, 2001

12 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2008 Last revised: 28 Sep 2009

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Louise E. Single

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Abstract

Since 1990, the multinational public accounting firms have all adopted flexible work arrangement policies. In part, the firms are doing this to fulfill an ethical obligation in creating an appropriate professional environment for its employees. This study examines the effect of participation in a flexible work arrangement program on an individual's professional success and anticipated turnover as perceived by the participant's peers and superiors. Subjects from one Big Five accounting firm read a description of a manager and answered a series of questions about the likelihood of the manager's promotion to partner, voluntary and involuntary turnover, and desirability on a job. Gender and participation in a flexible work arrangement were manipulated in a 2X2 design. The results indicate that participation in a flexible work arrangement evoked significantly more pessimistic predictions on all of the dimensions. Gender did not have an effect on the likelihood ratings. Follow-up questions about the factors that enhance and hinder individuals' career success in each work scenario indicated that there are gender-based differences in perceptions of what it takes to be a successful professional in the financial services environment. Implications for professional and ethics practice and research are also presented.

Keywords: Flexible work arrangements, Gender issues in public accounting, ethics

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Single, Louise E., An Examination of the Perceived Impact of Flexible Work Arrangements on Professional Opportunities in Public Accounting. Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 32, pp. 317-328, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1102310
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality and Behavior Posted: 1988
Crossref
E D Almer , S E Kaplan
The Effects of Flexible Work Arrangements on Behavioral Job Outcomes, Burnout and Stress Posted: 1999
Crossref
E D Almer , J R Hopper , S E Kaplan
The Effect of Diversity-Related Attributes on Hiring, Advancement and Voluntary Turnover Judgments', Accounting Horizons , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1998-03
Crossref
The Supply of Accounting Graduates and the Demand for Public Recruits Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
232,542
4 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Flexible Scheduling in Public Accounting

By Jeffrey R. Cohen

Is it the Kids or the Schedule?: The Incremental Effect of Families and Flexible Scheduling on Perceived Career Success

By Elizabeth Dreike Almer, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

Flexible Working Arrangement and Stress Management Training in Mitigating Auditor’s Burnout: An Experimental Study

By Intiyas Utami and Dr. Supriyadi

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies