Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is it the Kids or the Schedule?: The Incremental Effect of Families and Flexible Scheduling on Perceived Career Success

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 54, pp. 51-65, 2004

15 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2008 Last revised: 9 Oct 2009

Elizabeth Dreike Almer

Portland State University - Accounting

Jeffrey R. Cohen

Boston College - Department of Accounting

Louise E. Single

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Abstract

Flexible work arrangements (FWAs) are widely offered in public accounting as a tool to retain valued professional staff. Previous research has shown that participants in FWAs are perceived to be less likely to succeed in their careers in public accounting than individuals in public accounting who do not participate in FWAs (Cohen and Single 2001). Research has also documented an increasing backlash against family-friendly policies in the workplace as placing unfair burdens on individuals without children.

Building directly on a previous study in this journal (Cohen and Single 2001), this study addresses the issue of whether the documented perceptions toward FWA participants are the result of electing to take part in the FWA or the result of bias against employees with children. The research questions are addressed in a 3 x 2 experimental setting in which we manipulate FWA participation, along with family status and gender of a hypothetical manager in a public accounting firm. Our findings indicate that FWA participants are viewed as less likely to advance and as less committed than individuals without children or individuals who had children but who were not taking part in a FWA. Male FWA participants are viewed as less likely to succeed than female FWA participants. This effect appears to arise from a perception that FWA participants are willing to make sacrifices in their careers to accommodate family needs and thus may not be as committed to making the sacrifices perceived as necessary to meet the rigorous demands of the public accounting environment. This raises the ethical question of what could be done to change the milieu in public accounting to foster a substantive support system for individuals who want to balance a family and a career.

Keywords: Flexible work arrangements, Gender issues in public accounting, ethics

Suggested Citation:

Almer, Elizabeth D. and Cohen, Jeffrey R. and Single, Louise E., Is it the Kids or the Schedule?: The Incremental Effect of Families and Flexible Scheduling on Perceived Career Success. Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 54, pp. 51-65, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1102303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
I Ajzen
Attitudes, Personality and Behavior Posted: 1988
Crossref
T D Allen , J E A Russell , M C Rush
The effects of gender and leave of absence on attributions for high performance, perceived organizational commitment, and allocation of organizational rewards
Sex Roles , volume 3 , issue 78 , p. 443 - 464 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H E Allerton
Parental backlash. Training and Development , volume 54 , issue 11 Posted: 2000
E D Almer , J R Hopper , S E Kaplan
The effect of diversity-related attributes on hiring, advancement and voluntary turnover judgments
Accounting Horizons , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
357,528
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Flexible Scheduling in Public Accounting

By Jeffrey R. Cohen

An Examination of the Perceived Impact of Flexible Work Arrangements on Professional Opportunities in Public Accounting

By Jeffrey R. Cohen and Louise E. Single

Flexible Working Arrangement and Stress Management Training in Mitigating Auditor’s Burnout: An Experimental Study

By Intiyas Utami and Dr. Supriyadi

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies