Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balanced Scorecard as a Knowledge Management Tool: A French Experience in a Semi-Public Insurance Company

Icfai Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. VI, No. 3, pp. 22-38, May 2008

18 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2010 Last revised: 26 Jul 2010

Gregory Wegmann

University of Burgundy - IAE Dijon School of Management, CREGO EA 7317

Abstract

This paper presents the Balanced Scorecard, a strategic control tool, which is quite famous globally. Its principle objective is to articulate the planning and control decisions. The Strategic Control and the Agency Theories constitute the foundation of this tool. But, in Northern Europe, some specific Balanced Scorecards have been designed to work within the Knowledge Management Theory framework, which needs a sophisticated information system support. Using two theoretical backgrounds - the Strategic Control approach and Knowledge Management Theory - the relevance of the Balanced Scorecard is analyzed. More particularly, the French situation is presented; to begin with, the French managers believe that the Balanced Scorecard is a relevant management instrument to drive the firm's objectives. The paper then takes a closer look at the Balanced Scorecard of a semi-public French insurance company.

Suggested Citation:

Wegmann, Grégory, The Balanced Scorecard as a Knowledge Management Tool: A French Experience in a Semi-Public Insurance Company. Icfai Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. VI, No. 3, pp. 22-38, May 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1127118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Apqc
How to Measure the Value of Knowledge Management
Knowledge Management Review Posted: 2001-03
Ch Argyris , D A Schön
Organizational Learning, Readings Posted: 1978
M Bromwich
The case for strategic management accounting: the role of accounting information for strategy in competitive markets
Accounting Organisation and Society , volume 15 , p. 127 - 146 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Intellectual Capital Accounts -Reporting and managing intellectual capital. memorandum, mai Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
565
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,035
RANK
111,488
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies