Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rationales of Tax Entities

9 Pages Posted: 9 May 2008

Philip Laroma Jezzi

University of Florence - Law School

Abstract

The theoretical justification of a separate tax applicable to companies and other organizations is a long-standing, though still current issue object of research.

Two approaches have been taken in this respect: On the one hand, it is argued that the need for an autonomous tax draws from the early 20th century belief that certain organizations are legal entities separate from their own founders, members and third parties in general (Entity Theory). The entity's ability to provide for a separate income tax is thus due to its qualification as an entity under commercial law.

On the other hand, it is argued that the introduction and preservation of a tax which applies to taxable subjects different from physical beings is legitimate only for corporate organizations and, in particular, for the purpose of advancing the taxation which, after the distribution of dividends, company members will be subject to (Substitute or Proxy Theory). The corollary to this approach is the structural need for a legal regulation resolving the problem of double taxation - of companies and their members - ensuing from two distinct taxes being applied to the same income.

I shall argue that none of the above traditional approaches is convincing; rather, the logical antecedent of a separate tax on income yielded by (or through) organizations is represented by one of their structural features: patrimonial separation, as referred to by the civil law. As a matter of fact, it is patrimonial separation - and, especially, its legal consequence: affirmative asset partitioning - that renders the ability to pay incorporated in the organization's income subjectively not attributable to any tax-payer other than the organization itself. There ensues the application of a separate tax on said income, to be paid by the organization itself which produced it.

Such an interpretation may explain why organizations devoid of legal personality under commercial law (such as trusts) are equally subject to a separate income tax; and may rationalize - from a strictly legal perspective - the double taxation applicable to the income of corporate organizations.

Keywords: tax entities, corporate tax, double taxation, tax transparency

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Laroma Jezzi, Philip, The Rationales of Tax Entities. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1130838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1130838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies