Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Financing, Growth and Stock Returns

European Financial Management, vol. 18, pp. 790-815, 2012

Posted: 17 Jul 2008 Last revised: 31 May 2017

Gikas A. Hardouvelis

University of Piraeus; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Georgios A. Papanastasopoulos

University of Piraeus - Department of Business Administration

Dimitrios Thomakos

University of Athens, Department of Business Administration

Tao Wang

City University of New York (CUNY) - Department of Economics

Date Written: January 13, 2010

Abstract

In this paper we investigate the relation of the value/growth anomaly with the anomaly on corporate financing activities. We find that value/growth and external financing indicators could be related in capturing stock returns attributable to sales growth. However, external financing indicators could be incrementally informative since they also pick up stock returns associated with earnings quality. Portfolios that combine information from both these indicators generate significantly higher returns than those containing each individual indicator. It appears that the external financing anomaly is to some extent distinct from the value/growth anomaly, in that it may also reflect investors' misunderstanding of the effects of opportunistic earnings management.

Keywords: Corporate financing activities, value/growth, earnings quality, stock returns

JEL Classification: G10, M4

Suggested Citation:

Hardouvelis, Gikas A. and Papanastasopoulos, Georgios A. and Thomakos, Dimitrios and Wang, Tao, External Financing, Growth and Stock Returns (January 13, 2010). European Financial Management, vol. 18, pp. 790-815, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1162236
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,689
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies