Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Very Private Matter: Anti-Nepotism Rules in Accounting Partnerships

Oral History in New Zealand, Vol. 18, pp. 13-17, 2006

11 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

The objective of this study is to review the manner in which oral histories address the 'problem' of memory, and to use an example from a 2002 oral history project concerning accounting partnerships in New Zealand to illustrate aspects of this problem. Many of the interviewees in 2002 recalled anti-nepotism clauses in accounting partnership deeds and acknowledged these clauses had been triggered by an event. There was a diversity of recollection as to the detail of this event, and various rationales, justifications, or explanations were provided. Together, these suggested anti-nepotism clauses retained considerable traction in partnership deeds without a shared understanding of their cause. This led to the question: why should the memory of a significant event be lacking when the consequences of the event remained structurally embedded? It is suggested that the traction of such anti-nepotism rules continue, because the underlying principle resonates with archetypal partnership codes.

Keywords: nepotism, accounting partnerships, anti-nepotism, Big 8

JEL Classification: M40, M59

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., A Very Private Matter: Anti-Nepotism Rules in Accounting Partnerships (2006). Oral History in New Zealand, Vol. 18, pp. 13-17, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1214002
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,758
RANK
422,861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Demographics, Gender & Diversity in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

From Local to Global: Auckland Accounting Partnerships

By Rachel F. Baskerville

Professional Closure by Proxy: The Impact of Changing Educational Requirements on Class Mobility for a Cohort of Big 8 Partners

By Rachel F. Baskerville

From Local to Global: Auckland Accounting Partnerships

By Rachel F. Baskerville

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies