Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Work-Life Balance Perspectives of Accountants

International Journal of Critical Accounting, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2008 Last revised: 8 Sep 2010

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Tracy Rebecca Brower

Texas A&M University

Date Written: September 6, 2010

Abstract

Finding the balance between career and personal life has always been a challenge for working people. Work-life balance refers to people spending sufficient time at their jobs while also spending adequate time on other pursuits, such as family, hobbies, and community involvement. This study addresses two research questions. The first examines the importance people place on work-life balance. The second considers whether gender differences are associated with work-life balance. Data for analysis was obtained via a survey of future accountants (students near graduation); results indicate that work-life balance is very important in career decisions. Findings reveal that a healthy work-life balance is associated with job satisfaction, job performance, and ethical decision-making. Maslow's hierarchy theory and McClelland’s motivational needs theory provide theoretical support for understanding people’s motivation to achieve a healthy work-life balance. Gender theory and related research provide theoretical support why differences exist between male and female accountants’ perspectives. The study also reviews what current accounting professionals are doing to improve their work-life balance.

Keywords: work-life balance, accounting profession

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy and Brower, Tracy Rebecca, An Examination of Work-Life Balance Perspectives of Accountants (September 6, 2010). International Journal of Critical Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1247762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Afp
Behavior of Management, Supervisors Critical in Reinforcing Ethics
AFP Website Posted: 2007-07
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
AICPA, Summit: Career and Life in the Balance Posted: 2003-05-12
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
Flexible Work Arrangements in CPA Firms book Posted: 2005-08-20
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
Formal Flexible Work Arrangements Posted: 2005-08-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
976
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,482
RANK
54,165
2 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Time Allocation between Work and Family Over the Life-Cycle: A Comparative Gender Analysis of Italy, France, Sweden and the United States

By Dominique Anxo, Lennart Flood, ...

Do Gender, Educational Level, Religiosity, and Work Experience Affect the Ethical Decision-Making of U.S. Accountants?

By A. Craig Keller, Katherine Taken Smith, ...

A Qualitative Investigation into the Meaning of Family Well-Being from the Perspective of Part-Time Professionals

By Fahri Karakas and Mary Dean Lee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies