Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Businesses and Tax Evasion

Stanford Law & Policy Review, Vol. 20, 2009

32 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2008 Last revised: 16 Jul 2009

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Stewart Karlinsky

San Jose State University - Donald and Sally Lucas Graduate School of Business

Joseph Bankman

Stanford Law School

Date Written: September 8, 2008

Abstract

This paper offers interview data on the tax compliance behavior of small cash businesses. We find that such businesses systematically underpay income, employment and sales taxes through income underreporting. The results show that participation in a parallel cash economy facilitates tax evasion and that cash business owners seek out sympathetic tax preparers. We also find that norms and opportunity, but not equity or tax law complexity, strongly influence such decisions to underreport income. The behavior patterns indicated by our data suggest specific policy tactics in the effort to close the tax gap.

Keywords: tax compliance, tax evasion, small businesses

JEL Classification: H24, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C. and Karlinsky, Stewart and Bankman, Joseph, Cash Businesses and Tax Evasion (September 8, 2008). Stanford Law & Policy Review, Vol. 20, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1265282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
See supra text accompanying note 9 (describing classic economic model)
I R S Doc
for example, the vast majority of audits were "correspondence" audits, a category that includes simple notification of error. See id. 70. The I.R.S. explains that computer scoring rates returns based on the chance that an audit will result in a change in the amount of tax due (the Discriminant Function System, or "DIF" score) and the likelihood of unreported income (the "UIDIF" score)
the overall rate was 1.03%. See generally Posted: 2006
See supra Part III.E.4 (describing fake books intended to provide an airtight audit defense)
See Cash Economy
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Joel B. Slemrod , Brett Collins , Jeffrey L. Hoopes , Daniel Reck , Michael Sebastiani
Does Credit-Card Information Reporting Improve Small-Business Tax Compliance?
NBER Working Paper No. w21412 · 51 Pages · Posted: 3 Aug 2015 · Last revised: 5 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xin He , Huina Xiao
A Typology of Tax Compliance in Developing Economies: Empirical Evidence from China’s Shoe Industry
41 Law & Policy 2:242-266 · 54 Pages · Posted: 2 Nov 2018 · Last revised: 15 May 2021 · Downloads: 46
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
786
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,901
RANK
72,812
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Rationality vs. Emotions: The Case of Tax Ethics and Compliance

By Boris Maciejovsky, Herbert Schwarzenberger, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies