Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Fair Value Accounting for Non-Financial Assets Pass the Market Test?

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2008 Last revised: 27 Feb 2013

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Valeri V. Nikolaev

University of Chicago Booth School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 10, 2013

Abstract

The choice between fair value and historical cost accounting is the subject of long-standing controversy among accounting academics and regulators. Nevertheless, the market-based evidence on this subject is very limited. We study the choice of fair value versus historical cost accounting for non-financial assets in a setting where market forces rather than regulators determine the outcome. In general, we find a very limited use of fair value accounting. However, the observed variation is consistent with market forces determining the choice. Fair value accounting is used when reliable fair value estimates are available at a low cost and when they convey information about operating performance. For example, with very few exceptions, firms’ managers commit to historical cost accounting for plant and equipment. Our findings contribute to the policy debate by documenting the market solution to one of the central questions in the accounting literature. Our findings indicate that despite its conceptual merits, fair value is unlikely to become the primary valuation method for illiquid non-financial assets on a voluntary basis.

Keywords: Fair Value, IFRS, Non-Financial Assets, Illiquid Assets

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Hans Bonde and Nikolaev, Valeri V., Does Fair Value Accounting for Non-Financial Assets Pass the Market Test? (January 10, 2013). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1269515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1269515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance, Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A Comparison of the value-relevance of U.S. versus Non-U.S. GAAP accounting measures using Form 20-F reconciliations
ARB 1940. Committee on Accounting Procedure. 'Depreciation on appreciation , volume 69 , p. 461 - 468 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R Ball
Changes in accounting techniques and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 1972
Crossref
R Ball
The firm as a specialist contracting intermediary, Application to accounting and auditing Posted: 1989
Load more
6 Citations
Tung Nguyen Thanh , Hai Phan Thanh , Nhan Ho Van , Tien-Thuy Thi Vo , Mai Thi Thuong
Factors affecting applied perception and applicability of fair value accounting: The case of construction firms in Vietnam
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 264 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Skrålan Vergauwe , Ann Gaeremynck
Disclosure Comparability Under IFRS
34 Pages · Posted: 21 Jun 2013 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Katarzyna Bareja , Magdalena Giedroyć
Motives for property, plant and equipment revaluation according to positive accounting theory
Zeszyty Teoretyczne Rachunkowości , volume 2016 , issue 87(143) , p. 9 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Jaromír Lazar , Ivana Koštuříková
ACCOUNTING AND MANAGEMENT ISSUES
Acta academica karviniensia , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 71 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
31,787
RANK
2,442
6 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies