Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Equity Valuation Using Multiples: The Number of Comparable Firms

38 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2008 Last revised: 12 Nov 2022

Ian A. Cooper

Indian Institute of Finance (IIF)

Neophytos Lambertides

Cyprus University of Technology

Date Written: November 1, 22

Abstract

We examine how the accuracy of a multiples-based valuation changes as the number of comparable firms used to estimate the valuation multiple increases. Our research is motivated by a contrast between the approach followed by practitioners, who typically use a small number of closely comparable firms, and the academic literature which often uses all firms in an industry. Using a simple selection rule based on growth rates, we find that using ten closely comparable firms is as accurate on average as using the entire cross-section of firms in an industry. Using five comparable firms is slightly less accurate. However, the loss of accuracy from using five comparable firms rather than ten firms or the entire industry is not great. The relative accuracy of a valuation based on five comparables does not vary in a predicable way across industries, except that it is generally better to use a small number rather than all firms in an industry with a large number of members. However, the relative accuracy of a valuation based on a small number of comparables does depend heavily on the similarity of the comparable firms to the target firm. If there are firms in the same industry with growth rates close to that of the target firm, then it is better to use a small number of comparables. Adding more firms simply adds noise, on average.

Keywords: Equity valuation, valuation, multiples valuation

JEL Classification: G11, G24, D81

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Ian Anthony and Lambertides, Neophytos, Optimal Equity Valuation Using Multiples: The Number of Comparable Firms (November 1, 22). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1272349 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1272349
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A W Alford
The Effect of the Set of Comparable Firms on the Accuracy of the Price-Earnings Valuation Method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 30 , p. 94 - 108 Posted: 1992
M Baker , R S Ruback
Estimating Industry Multiples Posted: 1999
S M Bartram , M Grinblatt
Agnostic Fundamental Snalysis Works
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 128 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 147 Posted: 2018
S Bhojraj , C M C Ler
Who Is My Peer? A Valuation-Based Approach to the Selection of Comparable Firms
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , p. 407 - 439 Posted: 2002
Load more
13 Citations
Emanuele Rossi , Gianfranco Forte
Assessing Relative Valuation in Equity Markets
, p. 27 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Oleg Salmanov , Natalia Babina , Svetlana Bashirova , Marina Samoshkina
Multiples for Valuation Estimates of Companies in the Technology Sector of Emerging Markets
11 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2017 · Downloads: 248
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Guojin Gong , Yue Laura Li , Ling Zhou
Earnings Non-Synchronicity and Voluntary Disclosure
AAA 2010 Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) Paper, Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 60 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2009 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2012 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shangkun Liang , Rong Fu , Xue Yang
Concurrent independent directors in the same industry and accounting information comparability
China Journal of Accounting Research , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 100268 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,736
RANK
20,553
13 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Disclosure Level and Expected Cost of Equity Capital: An Examination of Analysts' Rankings of Corporate Disclosure and Alternative Methods of Estimating Expected Cost of Equity Capital

By Christine Botosan and Marlene Plumlee

Information Asymmetry, Corporate Disclosure and the Capital Markets: A Review of the Empirical Disclosure Literature

By Paul M. Healy and Krishna Palepu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies