Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

Agoglia, C.P., T.S. Doupnik, and G.T. Tsakumis. 2011. Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions. The Accounting Review 86 (3): 747-767.

39 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2009 Last revised: 14 Feb 2014

Christopher P. Agoglia

University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Timothy Doupnik

University of South Carolina - Darla Moore School of Business

George T. Tsakumis

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 6, 2010

Abstract

Recent accounting scandals have resulted in regulatory initiatives designed to strengthen audit committee oversight of corporate financial reporting and have led to a concern that U.S. GAAP has become too rules-based. We examine issues related to these initiatives using two experiments. CFOs in our experiments exhibit more agreement and are less likely to report aggressively under a less precise (more principles-based) standard than under a more precise (more rules-based) standard. Our results also indicate that CFOs applying a more precise standard are less likely to report aggressively in the presence of a strong audit committee than a weak audit committee. We find no effect of audit committee strength when the standard is less precise. Finally, we find support for a three-path mediating model examining mechanisms driving the effect of standard precision on aggressive reporting decisions. These results should be of interest to U.S. policy makers as they continue to contemplate a shift to more principles-based accounting standards (e.g., IFRS).

Keywords: standard precision, rules-based standards, principles-based standards, audit committee, corporate governance, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

JEL Classification: M41, M43, M44, M49, G38

Suggested Citation:

Agoglia, Christopher P. and Doupnik, Timothy S. and Tsakumis, George T., Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions (December 6, 2010). Agoglia, C.P., T.S. Doupnik, and G.T. Tsakumis. 2011. Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions. The Accounting Review 86 (3): 747-767., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1275851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
L Abbott , J Park , S Parker
The effects of audit committee activity and independence on corporate fraud
Managerial Finance , volume 26 , issue 11 , p. 55 - 67 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S _____ , G F Parker , Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004
Report and Recommendations of the Blue Ribbon Committee on Improving the Effectiveness of Corporate Audit Committees Posted: 1999
J Bédard , S M Chtourou , L Courteau
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21,814
RANK
5,300
16 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies