Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $6.25
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit and Collections Corporation

Darden Case No. UVA-C-2253

6 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2008

Robert Sack

University of Virginia - Darden School of Business

Abstract

An accounting issue arose when a firm that managed accounts receivable for clients began planning for a public issue of its shares. Two public accounting firms it approached gave different opinions on when revenue could be recorded. The arguments included: earned and realized; the Financial Accounting Standard Board's statements of Financial Accounting Concepts: Con 5 and Con 6; discussions about whether the service being sold was the process or whether it was the collections themselves. Comparable accounting practices in other industries (franchising, real estate, software, oil and gas carve out, health clubs and life insurance) seemed to follow conflicting policies.

Excerpt

UVA-C-2253

CREDIT AND COLLECTIONS CORPORATION

Credit and Collections Corporation (CCC) was in three lines of business, all related to the management and collection of accounts receivable. The company had grown dramatically, and that growth had necessitated an increase in equity. Management was considering an offering of stock to a group of private investors but, in the process of preparing for that offering, some questions had been raised about the company's historic accounting practices. Those arguments had escalated, and the debate had quickly become polarized. The accounting practices issue threatened the company's recent profitability trend, and part of the emotion generated by the debate was due to the threat that a change could pose to management's pride in the rising trend. But also, part of the polarization could be traced to the fact that any significant change in reported earnings would change the picture of the company that was presented by the financial statements, and that different picture would probably derail the equity offering.

. . .

Keywords: revenue recognition, collection services, alternative accounting practices, SAB 101, relevance vs. reliability, earned and realized

Suggested Citation:

Sack, Robert, Credit and Collections Corporation. Darden Case No. UVA-C-2253, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1276994 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1276994
Purchase - $6.25
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,440
RANK
826,938
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Darden Case Collection

Follow

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies