Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Risk Reporting: A Critical Analysis of Value at Risk Disclosures in the Banking Sector

International Journal of Financial Services Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 45-64, 2008

20 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2008 Last revised: 9 Mar 2009

Margaret Woods

Aston Business School

Kevin Dowd

Nottingham University Business School (NUBS)

Christopher Humphrey

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 22, 2008

Abstract

This paper critically reviews the evolution of financial reporting in the banking sector with specific reference to the reporting of market risk and the growing utilisation of the measure known as Value at Risk (VaR). The paper investigates the process by which VaR became 'institutionalised'. The analysis highlights a number of inherent limitations of VaR as a risk measure and questions the usefulness of published VaR disclosures, concluding that risk 'disclosure' might be more apparent than real. It also looks at some of the implications for risk reporting practice and the accounting profession more generally.

Keywords: banking, value-at -risk, disclosure, risk reporting

JEL Classification: G21, M41, N20

Suggested Citation:

Woods, Margaret and Dowd, Kevin and Humphrey, Christopher, The Value of Risk Reporting: A Critical Analysis of Value at Risk Disclosures in the Banking Sector (October 22, 2008). International Journal of Financial Services Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 45-64, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1288204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
ASB (1997) FRED 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosure
Crossref
FRS 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosure Posted: 1998
Crossref
ASB (1999) Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting
Audit of Derivative Financial Instruments
Practice Note , volume 23 Posted: 2002
Load more
2 Citations
Manh Ha Tran , Dudley Gilder , Nathan Lael Joseph
Value-at-Risk at Commercial Banks Before, During and After Financial Crisis: An International Perspective
47 Pages · Posted: 12 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mateusz Buczyński , Marcin Chlebus
The importance of window size: A study on the required window size for optimal-quality market risk models
Journal of Risk Model Validation, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2022 · 22 Pages · Posted: 29 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
810
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,817
RANK
69,875
2 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evaluation of Value-at-Risk Models Using Historical Data

By Darryll Hendricks

How Accurate are Value-at-Risk Models at Commercial Banks

By Jeremy Berkowitz and James M. O'brien

The Predictive Ability of Several Models of Exchange Rate Volatility

By Kenneth D. West and Dongchul Cho

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies