Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Granting of Loans by German Banks to Small and Medium-Sized Entities Against the Background of International Financial Reporting

29 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2008 Last revised: 27 Mar 2010

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Stephan T. Burghardt

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Date Written: November 6, 2008

Abstract

Due to the lack of capital market orientation, small and medium-sized entities regularly finance themselves by borrowing debt capital in form of credits. Such credits are most commonly provided by institutions of the German universal banking system. Against the background of an increasingly restrictive regulatory environment (especially due to Basel II) and the current discussions about the harmonisation of national (according to the German Commercial Code) and international accounting principles (German Accounting Law Modernization Act - BilMoG, IFRS for SMEs/PEs), it is imperative to review the impact of the internationalisation of financial reporting and of the changing determining factors on lending decisions within Germany. In this context it is especially interesting, both from an economic and from a behavioural perspective, to examine some highly debated theses, which claim that the system of financial reporting employed by the credit-seeker will influence the banks' lending decisions as well as the conditions under which a loan is granted. Though there have been many differing opinions about these theses, no up-to-date empirical data had yet been gathered from the perspective of the credit institutions themselves. This report therefore draws on the present state of research, complementing it for the first time with representative empirical data from the perspective of the decision makers in German credit institutions.

Keywords: Granting of loans, credit rating, rating advantages, credit conditions, IFRS for SMEs, transition to IFRS, standardization of financial statements

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zülch, Henning and Burghardt, Stephan T., The Granting of Loans by German Banks to Small and Medium-Sized Entities Against the Background of International Financial Reporting (November 6, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1296611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1296611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
T Arnsfeld , J Müller
Hybridkapital als Eigenkapitalsurrogat -Anerkennungspraktiken der Ratingagenturen und Konsequenzen für bankinterne Ratingverfahren , p. 326 - 340 Posted: 2008
J Baetge , H.-J Kirsch , C.-F Leuschner , L Jerzembek
Die Kapitalabgrenzung nach IFRS. Ein Vorschlag zur Modifizierung des IAS , volume 32 , p. 2133 - 2138 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Baetge , H.-J Kirsch , S Thiele
Posted: 2004
Bafin
Circular 5/2007: Minimum Requirements for Risk Management Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,311
RANK
161,684
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies