Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entity-Level Controls: The Internal Auditor's Assessment of Management Tone at the Top

Current Issues in Auditing, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 1-13, 2009

23 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2008 Last revised: 10 Feb 2010

James C. Hansen

Weber State University Goddard School of Business and Economics

Nathaniel M. Stephens

BYU-Hawaii

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: November 7, 2008

Abstract

The internal audit function's (IAF) regular interaction with management and continual presence within the organization place it in a unique position to monitor the organization. Although the IAF has significant potential to evaluate and improve corporate governance, research has yet to explore how internal auditors assess an important component of corporate governance - management tone at the top. This paper reports survey evidence of 578 practicing internal auditors related to (1) current internal auditing practices regarding assessing management's tone, (2) internal auditor's current assessments of management's tone, and (3) potential future practices internal auditor's could perform to improve management's tone. In addition, we examine whether tone at the top is higher in organizations where internal auditors perform tone at the top assessments and if assessments differ based on what level of internal audit professional performs tone at the top assessments.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Entity-Level Controls, Tone at the Top, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, James C. and Stephens, Nathaniel M. and Wood, David A., Entity-Level Controls: The Internal Auditor's Assessment of Management Tone at the Top (November 7, 2008). Current Issues in Auditing, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 1-13, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1297362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A R Abdel-Khalik , D Snowball , J H Wragge
The effect of certain internal audit variables on the planning of external audit programs
The Accounting Review , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 215 - 227 Posted: 1983
S K Asare , R A Davidson , A A Gramling
Internal auditors' evaluation of fraud factors in planning an audit: The importance of audit committee quality and management incentives
International Journal of Auditing , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 181 - 203 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Booth , A K D Schulz
The impact of an ethical environment on mangers' project evaluation judgments under agency problem conditions. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 473 - 388 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J M D&apos;aquila
Is the control environment related to financial reporting decisions?
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 18 , issue 8 , p. 472 - 478 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
737
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,059
RANK
79,245
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies