Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Budgeting - Decision Making Practices in Pakistan

11 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2008

H. Jamal Zubairi

Institute of Business Management

Date Written: October 27, 2008

Abstract

A number of capital budgeting techniques find place in basic as well as advanced text books on Financial Management and Corporate Finance. Each technique has its pros and cons as a decision making tool.

The research paper investigates the decision making practices of Pakistani companies with respect to Capital Budgeting including the techniques employed and basis for estimation of cost of Capital / Project risk. The paper also examines the linkage between the techniques employed and various factors such as; size of investment outlay, nature of industry, company size, growth rate and capital structure. Also probed is the extent of delegation of decision making authority in respect of capital budgeting decisions. Further, the respondents' views on relative popularity/significance of the techniques and reasons for the same have also been studied. Furthermore, the differences in techniques and decision making practices of local and foreign companies operating in Pakistan have also been looked into.

The information/data for the above stated purpose was collected through a questionnaire from sample companies listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE).The main findings extracted from the responses to the questionnaire are, that key decision makers in Pakistani firms are quite aware of and practically using sophisticated capital budgeting techniques. The study shows that bigger size companies give greater preference to IRR, while smaller firms rely more on NPV. Also smaller firms are keener in estimating the pay back period (PP) as compared to larger companies. Consciously or unconsciously the firms relying more on debt financing or with high growth rates give more preference to the NPV technique, while low leverage and low growth firms rely more on IRR.

Keywords: Internal Rate of Return (IRR), Net present value (NPV), Payback period (PP), Modified Internal Rate of Return (MIRR), Accouting Rate of Return (ARR)

JEL Classification: G31

Suggested Citation:

Zubairi, Hamid Jamal, Capital Budgeting - Decision Making Practices in Pakistan (October 27, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308662 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
J A Fremgren
Capital Budgeting Practices: A Survey
Management Accounting , p. 19 - 25 Posted: 1973-05
D F Istvan
The Economic Evaluation of Capital Expenditures
Journal of Business , p. 45 - 51 Posted: 1961-01
Crossref
Lawrence D Schall , Gary L Sundem , Willaim R Geijsbeek , Jr
Survey and Analysis of Captial Budgeting Methods
Journal of Finance , p. 281 - 288 Posted: 1978-03
Crossref
T Klammer
Empirical Evidence of the Adoption of Sohisticated Capital Budgeting Techniques
Journal of Business , p. 387 - 397 Posted: 1977-10
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Abduallah Al-Mutairi , Kamal Naser , Muna Saeid , David McMillan
Capital budgeting practices by non-financial companies listed on Kuwait Stock Exchange (KSE)
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1468232 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Mohamed Nurullah , Lingesiya Kengatharan
Capital budgeting practices: evidence from Sri Lanka
Journal of Advances in Management Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 55 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,721
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,823
RANK
11,322
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Do We Know About Capital Structure? Some Evidence from International Data

By Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales

The Theory and Practice of Corporate Finance: Evidence from the Field

By John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey

Capital Structure Puzzle

By Stewart C. Myers

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies