Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions

48 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2008 Last revised: 26 Apr 2013

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Susan Scholz

University of Kansas - Accounting and Information Systems Area

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 1, 2013

Abstract

This study investigates determinants of restatement disclosure choices and the related stock price reactions in the post-Sarbanes-Oxley era, a period characterized by high restatement volume and mixed signals from regulators about restatement disclosure requirements. Holding the materiality of restatements constant, we show that firms with greater outside monitoring prior to a restatement announcement are more likely to disclose restatements transparently while firms with more aggressive reporting are less likely to disclose restatements transparently. We also provide evidence that firms’ restatement disclosure choices are influenced by the disclosures of their industry peers and that obscure disclosures attenuate the stock price reaction to restatement announcements. Finally, although we find that the transparency and timeliness of restatement disclosures have improved following a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule designed to improve the quality of restatement disclosures, we also find that some firms continue to disclose severe restatements in the most obscure disclosure venue. This evidence is consistent with SEC concerns about firms “restating under the radar.”

Keywords: accounting restatements, stealth restatements, disclosure choice, market reactions, monitoring

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M43, M45

Suggested Citation:

Myers, Linda A. and Scholz, Susan and Sharp, Nathan Y., Restating Under the Radar? Determinants of Restatement Disclosure Choices and the Related Market Reactions (April 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1309786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1309786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
A Acito , J Burks , B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
Crossref
H Ahsbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney
The discovery and reporting of internal control deficiencies prior to SOX-mandated audits
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 44 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 166 - 192 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Badertscher , J J Burks
Accounting restatements and the timeliness of disclosures
Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 609 - 629 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,624
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,050
RANK
11,993
44 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Stealth Disclosure of Accounting Restatements

By Rebecca Files, Edward P. Swanson, ...

Analyst Following and Credit Ratings

By Mei Cheng and K.r. Subramanyam

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies