Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Reporting and Reputation Risk Management

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Vol. 21, No. 3, 2008

Posted: 11 Dec 2008 Last revised: 14 Dec 2008

Jan Bebbington

Independent

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

José Maria Mariano Moneva

University of Zaragoza - Faculty of Business and Economics

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

Purpose - To explore the proposition that corporate social responsibility reporting could be viewed as both as an outcome of and part of reputation risk management processes (we phrase this as being the reputation risk management thesis). Design/methodology/approach - The paper outlines how reputation risk management is conceptualised, drawing heavily on management research that is concerned with reputation. In addition, an image restoration framework is introduced and used to evaluate whether Shell's 2002 corporate social responsibility report could be understood using a reputation lens. The paper also seeks to link the reputation risk management thesis with existing theoretical explanations for reporting in the social accounting literature (namely legitimacy and stakeholder theory). The paper thus utilizes a combination of literature review and the analysis of a report to allow a tentative investigation of the plausibility of the reputation risk management thesis.

Findings - The concept of reputation risk management could assist our understandings of corporate social responsibility reporting practice.

Research limitations/implications - Reviewing reporting practices cannot capture the specific rationales of managers who may be seeking to enhance their reputations via reporting. Rather, a direct inquiry into managers' conceptions of reputation would shed more light on the relationships of interest.

Practical implications - Ill-defined concepts, such as reputation risk, may have a profound and transformative impact on practical affairs.

Originality/value - While the links between reputation risk management and corporate social responsibility reporting have been suggested by practitioners and proponents of reporting, this proposition has yet to have an impact on the social accounting literature. This paper, we hope, starts the process of exploring this connection and the links between reputation risk management and existing theorising in social accounting.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility reporting, reputation risk management, accountability, legitimacy theory

Suggested Citation:

Bebbington, Jan and Larrinaga, Carlos and Mariano Moneva, José Maria, Corporate Social Reporting and Reputation Risk Management (December 9, 2008). Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Vol. 21, No. 3, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313680
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,764
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies