Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on the External Auditor's Reliance Decision

Messier, W.F., J.K. Reynolds, C.A. Simon, and D.A. Wood. 2011. The Effect of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on the External Auditor’s Reliance Decision. The Accounting Review 86 (6): 2131-2154.

Posted: 28 Jan 2009 Last revised: 20 May 2015

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

J. Kenneth Reynolds

Florida State University

Chad Simon

Utah State University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 1, 2010

Abstract

This study examines how using the internal audit function (IAF) as a management training ground (MTG) affects external audit fees and the external auditors' perceptions of the IAF. Over half of all companies that have an IAF specifically hire internal auditors with the purpose of rotating them into management positions (or cycle current employees into the IAF for a short stint before promoting them into management positions). Using archival data, we find that external auditors charge higher fees to companies that use the IAF as a MTG. Using an experiment, we provide evidence as to why fees are higher. Specifically, we find that external auditors perceive internal auditors employed in an IAF used as a MTG to be less objective but not less competent than internal auditors employed in an IAF not used as a MTG. These results have important implications for the many companies that use their IAF as a MTG.

Keywords: Internal Audit Function, Internal Audit Quality, Management Training Ground, and External Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M41, M49, G34

Suggested Citation:

Messier Jr, William F. and Reynolds, J. Kenneth and Simon, Chad A. and Wood, David A., The Effect of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on the External Auditor's Reliance Decision (March 1, 2010). Messier, W.F., J.K. Reynolds, C.A. Simon, and D.A. Wood. 2011. The Effect of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on the External Auditor’s Reliance Decision. The Accounting Review 86 (6): 2131-2154., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313806
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,162
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies