Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Logics, ICT and Stability of Management Accounting

European Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp.241-275, 2008

Posted: 11 Dec 2008 Last revised: 31 Aug 2010

Timo Hyvonen

Tampere University; Tampere University - School of Business Administration

Janne Järvinen

University of Oulu

Jukka Pellinen

University of Jyväskylä

Tapani Rahko

Tampere University

Date Written: December 9, 2008

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to study the institutional logics of how and why two case units in the Finnish Defence Forces have reacted differently to external pressures originating from the State Audit Office to change their management accounting systems. The situation is made complex due to the fact that in military organisations, accountants' tasks have traditionally consisted of bookkeeping and financial reporting, while management accounting tasks especially (e.g. planning and control) have been performed predominantly by military personnel, who can be called hybrid accountants. The data for this study consists of project memos and interviews with people involved in designing and implementing ERP-linked cost accounting and reporting systems. In the case unit where management accounting and control had become institutionalized as a part of the uniformed officer's professional sphere, various resistance strategies (i.e. compromise strategy/pacifying tactics, avoidance strategy/buffering tactics and defiance strategy/dismissing tactics) were adopted. However, where this was not the case, the response was acquiescence. Despite the differences in responses to institutional pressure, the outcome for management accounting was the same. In the first case, demands for change were resisted, and in the second case, the old management accounting system was transferred into new ITC infrastructure without any significant change in content.

Keywords: institutional theory, management accounting change and stability, enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, accounting hybridisation, public sector, case studyarated

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Hyvonen, Timo and Järvinen, Janne and Pellinen, Jukka and Rahko, Tapani, Institutional Logics, ICT and Stability of Management Accounting (December 9, 2008). European Accounting Review, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp.241-275, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1313752
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,393
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies