Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Litigation Risk and Corporate Governance

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2008

Jagan Krishnan

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Jong Eun Lee

Sungkyunkwan University

Date Written: June 20, 2008

Abstract

Recent debates on audit committee financial expertise have focused on "accounting" and "non-accounting" financial experts. A significant proportion of firms do not appoint accounting financial experts (i.e., persons with specialized accounting/auditing experience) to their audit committees. We examine the determinants of firms' choice of the "audit committee financial experts", for a sample of Fortune 1000 firms. We test the relation between the demand for accounting financial experts (AFEs), potential litigation risk, and corporate governance. We find that firms with higher litigation risk are more likely to have AFEs on their audit committee. However, the association between litigation risk and the likelihood of appointing accounting financial experts occurs for firms with relatively strong governance but not for those with weak governance. Thus, our findings indicate that (1) companies with demand for accounting financial experts - measured by potential litigation risk - seem to be able to secure accounting financial experts but (2) such benefits only accrue in the presence of otherwise strong corporate governance.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Financial Expert, Litigation Risk, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: G18, G34, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Krishnan, Jagan and Lee, Jong Eun, Audit Committee Financial Expertise, Litigation Risk and Corporate Governance (June 20, 2008). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1316278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Audit committee characteristics and restatements
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 69 - 87 Posted: 2004-03
Crossref
M S Beasley
An empirical analysis of the relation between the board of director composition and financial statement fraud
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 443 - 465 Posted: 1996-10
Crossref
M S Beasley , S E Salterio
The relationship between board characteristics and voluntary improvements in audit committee composition and experience
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 18 , p. 539 - 570 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Bédard , S M Chtourou , L Courteau
The effect of audit committee expertise, independence, and activity on aggressive earnings management
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , p. 13 - 35 Posted: 2004-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,337
RANK
40,557
9 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies