Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Market Responses to Financial Statement Restatement Announcements in the Sarbanes-Oxley Era

39 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2008

Jana Hranaiova

Public Company Oversight Board

Steven L. Byers

Steven L Byers Consulting

Date Written: October 9, 2007

Abstract

We examine changes in the market's response to financial statement restatement announcements during the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) era. We define this era as beginning with the U.S. Department of Justice initiation of a criminal investigation into the collapse of Enron, and its attendant loss of billions of dollars of shareholder value, through the November 15, 2004, requirement that all U.S. companies with market capitalizations over $75 million must comply with SOX Section 404, which deals with corporate internal controls over financial reporting We divided the Sarbanes-Oxley era into pre- and post-SOX periods, with the dividing line concurrent with the signing of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act into law on July 30, 2002. The comparison of pre- and post-SOX periods shows that post-SOX, the negative impact on companies announcing restatements is reduced 71 percent on average (as measured by the cumulative abnormal return on days 0 and 1) and the positive market response to announced restatements is reduced by 33 percent. This translates into a net reduction in lost market value of $207 million per restatement announcement or $74.4 billion in total market value for the two-day announcement event window. We also find that this reduction is not due to the diluting effects of the increased number of statistically insignificant post-SOX market reactions to restatement announcements. Finally, our results indicate that after SOX became law, post-announcement abnormal returns exhibit statistically significant lower volatility and the trend in statistically insignificant market responses to restatement announcements no longer declines, thus indicating less uncertainty on the part of investors regarding the announcements of restating companies, and perhaps because investors believe the disclosed information conveyed by the restated financials is timelier and of higher quality.

Keywords: Restatements, Sarbanes-Oxley, Market Reactions

JEL Classification: G14, G34, G38, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Hranaiova, Jana and Byers, Steven L., Changes in Market Responses to Financial Statement Restatement Announcements in the Sarbanes-Oxley Era (October 9, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1319354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1319354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Kirsten L. Anderson , Teri Lombardi Yohn
The Effect of 10k Restatements on Firm Value, Information Asymmetries, and Investors' Reliance on Earnings
Pages: 30 Posted: 17 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
S Byers , J Hranaiova
Latent Observations and the 'Bads' Database: the Need for a Restatement Database Posted: 2006
C J Campbell , C E Wasley
Measuring Security Price Performance Using Daily NASDAQ Returns
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 33 , p. 73 - 92 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,473
RANK
110,264
12 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies