Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Initial Retention of External Accountants in Startup Ventures

42 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2008 Last revised: 14 Jul 2009

Gavin Cassar

INSEAD

Christopher D. Ittner

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 27, 2008

Abstract

This study investigates the determinants of the initial retention of external accountants by new U.S. start-ups. We test several arguments related to agency and credibility needs, financial activity and complexity, and accounting support and advice. Consistent with financial activity and complexity arguments, we find that intended scale and bank account activity are positively associated with both the actual and intended retention of an accountant. Comparing the decision to retain an accountant with the retention of another professional service, retaining a lawyer, we find many of the same factors to be significant. However, we find that lawyers are more likely to be retained during heightened uncertainty, primarily given the role of lawyers with patent and intellectual property assistance. Overall, these results suggest that some of the determinants of external accountant retention contrast with the determinants of internal accounting resource adoption, which are primarily related to decision-making needs and uncertainty.

Keywords: accountants, adoption, entrepreneurs, professional services, retention, start-ups

JEL Classification: M4, K00

Suggested Citation:

Cassar, Gavin and Ittner, Christopher D., Initial Retention of External Accountants in Startup Ventures (December 27, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1320697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1320697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
F Chittenden , J Mcconnel , C Risner
The role of the accounting profession in the growth and development of small business
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants research report Posted: 1990
C W Chow
The demand for external auditing: Size, debt and ownership influences
The Accounting Review , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 272 - 291 Posted: 1982
R H Coase
The nature of the firm
Economica , volume 4 , issue 16 , p. 386 - 405 Posted: 1937
Crossref
R H Coase
Accounting and the theory of the firm
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 13 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Shawn Carraher , Howard Van Auken
The use of financial statements for decision making by small firms
Journal of Small Business & Entrepreneurship , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 323 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Robert Andrew Blackburn , Peter Carey , George Tanewski
The Role of Trust, Relationships and Professional Ethics in the Supply of External Business Advice by Accountants to SMEs
Australian Centre for Financial Studies - Finsia Banking and Finance Conference 2010 · 42 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2010 · Downloads: 659
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kimberly C. Gleason , Yezen H. Kannan , Christian Rauch
Fraud in Startups: What Stakeholders Need to Know
43 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 271
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Aland
Exploring the Knowledge Gaps of Crowdfunding Firms: A Survey of Crowdfunding Firms and Auditors
24 Pages · Posted: 5 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,690
RANK
403,275
4 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Management Accounting Systems Adoption Decisions: Evidence and Performance Implications from Startup Companies

By Tony Davila and George Foster

Introducing the First Management Control Systems: Evidence from the Retail Sector

By Tatiana Sandino

Financial Statement and Projection Preparation in Start-Up Ventures

By Gavin Cassar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies