Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practicing Accountants' Views of the Content of Accounting Ethics Courses

CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper

32 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2009 Last revised: 9 Apr 2009

Mohammad J. Abdolmohammadi

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Alan Reinstein

Wayne State University

Date Written: January 11, 2009

Abstract

The National Association of State Boards of Accountancy's most recent proposal (NASBA 2007) requires all students sitting for the Uniform CPA examination to have completed a curriculum that includes a three-semester-hour (SCH) ethics course or one that integrates the study of ethics into all accounting courses at the equivalent of the three SCH minimum. If passed, the implied curriculum modification suggests that accounting instructors can benefit from guidance on ethics content to include in their courses. Because much of the debate of how to cover ethics in the curriculum focuses on the requirements to become a CPA, experienced practicing accountants' views can be helpful in determining the content of ethics courses in accounting. We compare our results with Hurtt & Thomas (2008) who asked academicians similar questions. Specifically, we surveyed 215 highly experienced practicing accountants (the vast majority of whom were CPAs). Among the top choices of content are current ethical issues, professional codes of conduct, ethical judgment and decision making process/models, corporate codes of ethics, whistleblower protection, record retention, philosophical theories of ethics and theories of ethics. The subjects agreed-moderately -- that ethics courses can influence attitudes and behavior, but they were neutral on whether ethics courses can reduce instances of Enron-like fraud. We also discuss some implications for the future of accounting education.

Keywords: Ethics education, accounting, course content

JEL Classification: M49, M41, M14, L84, L50

Suggested Citation:

Abdolmohammadi, Mohammad J. and Reinstein, Alan, Practicing Accountants' Views of the Content of Accounting Ethics Courses (January 11, 2009). CAAA Annual Conference 2009 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1326015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1326015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Aaaec
Response to NASBA Framework for Revision -Rules 5-1 and 5-2 Posted: 2006-01-16
M J Abdolmohammadi
Ethical Training in Graduate Accounting Courses: Effects of Intervention, Gender and Class Size on Students' Ethical Reasoning
Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting (RPREA) , volume 10 , p. 37 - 62 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi
Who should teach Ethics Courses in Business and Accounting Programs? Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting (forthcoming) Posted: 2008
Crossref
M J Abdolmohammadi , R Baker
Value Preferences and Moral Reasoning of Graduate Accounting Students
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 69 , p. 11 - 25 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,818
RANK
159,889
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies