Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Assets & Knowledge Due Diligence

2 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2009 Last revised: 10 Jul 2020

Noah Farhadi

University of Reading - Henley Business School

Date Written: March 14, 2009

Abstract

The ability of the acquirer and the acquired firm in managing new capabilities and skills following a transaction is considered to be one of the most important purchasing criteria in takeovers and mergers. Practitioners claim that M&A deals, which involve practices with strong knowledge management discipline, are better candidates for acquisition. Experience reveals that world-class organizations that are managing knowledge assets effectively increase innovation, accelerate speed to market, increase organizational competence, and improve productivity.

In M&A deals, companies go through a chain of activities: (1) crafting inorganic growth strategy; (2) screening market for acceptable growth opportunities; (3) targeting the candidates; (4) conducting due diligence investigations and post-acquisition integration planning; (5) allocating purchase price and negotiating; (6) signing and closing; and notably (7) implementing and finalizing post-merger integration.

In our contribution, we will provide insight on the importance of intellectual capital in inorganic growth. Among other due diligence investigations, we argue that knowledge management due diligence audit is supposed to explain the relationship between (1) intangible knowledge assets (including the related processes, technologies and organisational culture) and (2) inorganic business growth through mergers and acquisitions.

Keywords: Due Diligence, M&A, Knowledge, Intangible Assets, Organic Growth

Suggested Citation:

Farhadi, Noah, Intellectual Assets & Knowledge Due Diligence (March 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1359663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1359663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
RANK
214,632
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies