Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Culture and Accounting Practices in Turkey

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2008

23 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2009 Last revised: 10 Feb 2010

Saeed Askary

Deakin University

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: March 31, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the effects of cultural values on accounting practices in Turkey by applying Gray's theory (Gray, 1988) of socio-cultural factors on accounting values and practices. We compared the model of accounting with accounting-profession authority, the quality and uniformity of financial disclosures, and accounting measurements in present Turkey. This country is a unique case among developing countries because of its specific geopolitical and cultural features. Our results confirm Gray's theory that high uncertainty avoidance and low individualism are positively associated with high conservative accounting measurements. In addition, the study confirms that the highest power distance, uncertainty avoidance, and the lower individualism are positively associated with accounting uniformity. However, large power distance, high uncertainty avoidance, and collectivisms negatively affect professionalism and financial disclosures.

Suggested Citation:

Askary, Saeed and Yazdifar, Hassan and Askarany, Davood, Culture and Accounting Practices in Turkey (March 31, 2009). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1370782
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
A multinational test of determinations of corporate disclosure
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , p. 173 - 194 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Askary
The influence of Islamic culture on the accounting values and practices of Muslim countries', Doctoral Dissertation Posted: 2001
S Askary
Accounting Professionalism -a cultural perspective of developing countries
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Askary , B Jackling
Corporate financial disclosure practices in Asian and Middle East Countries
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 45 - 72 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
88,155
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies