Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Potential Dividends Versus Actual Cash Flows in Firm Valuation

The ICFAI Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 15, No. 7, pp. 51-66

24 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2009 Last revised: 20 Dec 2010

Carlo Alberto Magni

Università degli studi di Modena e Reggio Emilia (UNIMORE) - School of Doctorate E4E (Engineering for Economics-Economics for Engineering)

Ignacio Velez-Pareja

Grupo Consultor CAV Capital Advisory & Valuation

Date Written: April 6, 2009

Abstract

Practitioners and some academics use potential dividends rather than actual payments to shareholders for valuing a firm's equity. We underline the differences between the two methods and present some arguments supporting the thesis that firm valuation with potential dividends overstate the actual value of the firm's equity. In particular, consistently with DeAngelo and DeAngelo (2006, 2007), we underline that cash flows create value for shareholders only if they are withdrawn from the firm, and that the use of potential dividends may lead to contradictions.

This paper is a modified version of the theoretical part (sections 1-3) of Velez-Pareja, I., and Magni, C.A. (2008). Potential Dividends and Actual Cash Flows. Theoretical and Empirical Reasons for Using 'Actual' and Dismissing 'Potential', Or: How not to Pull Potential Rabbits Out of Actual Hats. Available at SSRN.

Keywords: Cash flows, cash flow to equity, liquid assets, potential dividends, firm valuation, equity value, Modigliani and Miller

JEL Classification: G12, G31, G35, M41

Suggested Citation:

Magni, Carlo Alberto and Velez-Pareja, Ignacio, Potential Dividends Versus Actual Cash Flows in Firm Valuation (April 6, 2009). The ICFAI Journal of Applied Finance, Vol. 15, No. 7, pp. 51-66, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1374070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
S Z Benninga , O H Sarig
Corporate Finance. A Valuation Approach Posted: 1997
R Brealey , S C Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2003
T E Copeland , T Koller , J Murrin
Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies Posted: 1990
T E Copeland , T Koller , J Murrin
Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies, 2 nd Edition Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Carlo Alberto Magni
Investment Decisions and the Logic of Valuation. Linking Finance, Accounting, and Engineering
Springer NATURE, Switzerland AG, 2020 · 73 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2020 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 327
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
781
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,954
RANK
73,440
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Potential Dividends and Actual Cash Flows: A Critical Analysis

By Ignacio Velez-pareja and Carlo Alberto Magni

Relevance or Irrelevance of Retention for Dividend Policy Irrelevance

By Carlo Alberto Magni

Potential Dividends and Actual Cash Flows: A Regional Latin American Analysis

By Ignacio Velez-pareja, Mariano German Merlo, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies