Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of Federal Income Taxation of Estates and Beneficiaries

Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 20

4 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2009

Ronald H. Jensen

Pace University School of Law

Abstract

Review of Federal Income Taxation of Estates and Beneficiaries by M. Carr Ferguson, James L. Freeland, and Richard B. Stephens. This comprehensive volume should help fill a void which tax practitioners have long endured. As the authors properly point out, though many volumes have been written on estate taxation and estate planning, relatively little attention has been given to the income tax consequences resulting from death. The present volume is a welcome and needed addition to the sparse body of literature on this subject.

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Ronald H., Review of Federal Income Taxation of Estates and Beneficiaries. Buffalo Law Review, Vol. 20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1380441
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,317
RANK
256,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies