Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reenactment and Inaction Doctrines in State Tax Litigation

State Tax Notes, Vol. 50, p. 661, 2008

10 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 6 Aug 2009

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: Dec. 9, 2008

Abstract

This installment of Interpretation Matters discusses two related canons of statutory interpretation and illustrates their use in state and local tax controversies.

These canons are relatively weak, but they have had traction in some cases. Accordingly, it behooves the state-local tax practitioner to be able to use the reenactment and inaction canons offensively when they arguably support her client’s cause and to be able to defend against them when they are asserted by an opponent.

Keywords: canons of statutory interpretations, state and local taxes

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., The Reenactment and Inaction Doctrines in State Tax Litigation (Dec. 9, 2008). State Tax Notes, Vol. 50, p. 661, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
219,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies