Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pro-Taxpayer Interpretation of State and Local Tax Laws

State Tax Notes, Vol. 51, p. 441, 2009

UNLV William S. Boyd School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 09-07

9 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 2 Jul 2009

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 9, 2009

Abstract

The pro-taxpayer canon is one of the oldest interpretational devices in tax litigation. It has been substantially abandoned at the federal level, but retains considerable vigor in cases involving state and local taxes. Although the canon applies only to ambiguous tax statutes and may yield to counter canons or presumptions, the pro-taxpayer canon has impact in enough cases that it should be one of the arrows in the quivers of taxpayers and their representatives.

Keywords: tax litigation, state taxes, local taxes, statutory interpretation

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Pro-Taxpayer Interpretation of State and Local Tax Laws (February 9, 2009). State Tax Notes, Vol. 51, p. 441, 2009, UNLV William S. Boyd School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 09-07, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
see also Coolspring Stone Supply, Inc. v. County of Fayette, 929 A.2d 1150 , p. 1157 - 58
J Saylor
concurring) (suggesting a similar approach as to categorization in a real estate tax case)
A N B Corp
Comptroller of Treasury , p. 6 - 7 Posted: 1969
Crossref
WL 15888 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,212
RANK
451,566
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies