Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Tax Malpractice Actions: Statutes of Limitations

State Tax Notes, Vol. 51, p. 119, 2009

11 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2009 Last revised: 6 Aug 2009

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: Jan. 13, 2009

Abstract

Malpractice actions against attorneys have escalated in number and dollar magnitudes in recent decades. Malpractice actions against accountants also have grown in number and size.

Tax malpractice suits have reflected these general trends. Such suits arising out of tax shelters have garnered lots of headlines, but more conventional types of tax transactions have spawned a larger number of cases. Most tax malpractice suits involve federal taxes. However, as Part I below demonstrates, a number of malpractice suits involve only state and local taxes or a mix of state, local, and federal taxes. Regardless of the types of taxes involved, state law typically provides the rules that govern tax malpractice cases.

Thus, malpractice law deserves the attention of state and local tax practitioners, and it will be the subject of this and some future installments of this column.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., State Tax Malpractice Actions: Statutes of Limitations (Jan. 13, 2009). State Tax Notes, Vol. 51, p. 119, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1413258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,301
RANK
324,400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies