Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modeling Endogenous Social Effects: A Study of M.B.A. Student Summer Internship Application Choices

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #35-09

36 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2009 Last revised: 28 Jul 2009

Tong Tony Bao

Long Island University - C.W. Post Campus

Sachin Gupta

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Vrinda Kadiyali

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: June 17, 2009

Abstract

We study how summer internship application choices of MBA students at a major university are influenced by the application choices made by their fellow students. We develop a simultaneous model of each individual’s choice as a function of other students’ choices. Our model of interdependence in decision making is structural and equilibrium-based. Also, the model is general enough to allow both positive and negative effects of average group choices on any individual’s decision. The structure of our data enables us to identify endogenous social effects separately from exogenous or correlated effects. We employ a two-stage procedure to address the endogeneity of choices: we estimate empirical choice probabilities in the first stage, and taste parameters for hiring firm attributes and peer influence in the second stage. Our results show that as expected, students prefer jobs with strong internship attributes (e.g. high salary, large firm size). In contrast to previous studies, we find negative (rather than positive) social effects. That is, strong attributes also make an internship application less attractive, leading to a lower choice probability relative to cases of zero or positive social effects. These negative social effects are consistent with congestion, i.e. students are aware that a good internship will attract the interest of more students, thus lowering the odds of getting it. These negative social effects are stronger for students with more work experience and stronger GMAT scores.

Keywords: interdependent preferences, endogenous social effects, choice model, negative social effects, congestion in choice, equilibrium models, structural models

JEL Classification: C35, I20, J40, L80, M31, M59

Suggested Citation:

Bao, Tong Tony and Gupta, Sachin and Kadiyali, Vrinda, Modeling Endogenous Social Effects: A Study of M.B.A. Student Summer Internship Application Choices (June 17, 2009). Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #35-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1421312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1421312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
George A Akerlof
Social Distance and Social Decisions
Econometrica , volume 65 , p. 1005 - 1033 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Wilfred Amaldoss , Sanjay Jain
Conspicuous Consumption and Sophisticated Thinking
Management Science , volume 51 , p. 1449 - 66 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Patrick Bajari , Han Hong , John Krainer , Denis Nekipelov
Estimating Static Models of Strategic Interaction
Journal of Business and Economic Statistics
Crossref
Maura A Belliveau
Blind Ambition? The Effects of Social Networks and Institutional Sex Composition on the Job Search Outcomes of Elite Coeducational and Women's College Graduates
Organization Science , volume 16 , p. 134 - 50 Posted: 2005-03-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,458
RANK
261,451
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Single Equation Models eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Estimating Dynamic Models of Imperfect Competition

By Patrick Bajari, C. Lanier Benkard, ...

Estimating Dynamic Models of Imperfect Competition

By Patrick Bajari, C. Lanier Benkard, ...

Sequential Estimation of Dynamic Discrete Games

By Victor Aguirregabiria and Pedro Mira

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies