Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's and the International Accounting Standard Board's Joint Discussion Paper Entitled, 'Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation'

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #32-09

18 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2009 Last revised: 28 Jul 2009

Robert H. Colson

Grant Thornton LLP

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: June 23, 2009

Abstract

The Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB's) and the International Accounting Standard Board's (IASB's) issued a joint Discussion Paper entitled, Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation. The Boards are seeking comments on whether their proposed model for financial statement presentation would improve the usefulness of the financial statement information for financial decision makers. This paper sets forth the AAA's Financial Accounting Standards Committee's summary comments as well as responses to several of the Boards' specific objectives and principles-related questions. Overall, we believe that the model has several appealing qualities, but also has several potential problems. Many of the problems that we discuss related to potential learning impediments for users to adapt to the new presentation format.

Keywords: Financial Accounting Standards Board, International Accounting Standards Board, Exposure Draft, Financial Statement Presentation

JEL Classification: M41, M44, G38

Suggested Citation:

Colson, Robert H. and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Jamal, Karim and Moehrle, Stephen R. and Ohlson, James A. and Penman, Stephen H. and Stober, Thomas L. and Watts, Ross L., Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's and the International Accounting Standard Board's Joint Discussion Paper Entitled, 'Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation' (June 23, 2009). Johnson School Research Paper Series No. #32-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1424567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1424567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
K Chen , C Lee
Executive bonus plans and accounting trade-offs: the case of the oil and gas industry
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , p. 91 - 111 Posted: 1985
M Defond , C Park
Smoothing income in anticipation of future earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 23 , p. 115 - 139 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Dye , R Verecchia
Discretion vs. uniformity: choices among GAAP
The Accounting Review , volume 70 , p. 389 - 415 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
689
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,457
RANK
86,385
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies