Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proportionate Liability Under the CBCA in the Context of Recent Corporate Governance Reform: Canadian Auditors in the Wrong Place at the Wrong Time?

Canadian Business Law Journal, Vol. 39, pp. 36-51, 2003

8 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2009

Stephanie Ben-Ishai

Osgoode Hall Law School

Poonam Puri

York University - Osgoode Law School

Date Written: June 30, 2003

Abstract

In the recent Canada Business Corporations Act' amendments implementing a proportionate liability scheme, auditors appear to be winners. This is consistent with the trend in the past several years as a result of which Canadian auditors have been successful in narrowing the scope of their liability both through legislation and through common law. Going forward, however, it is fair to say that auditors will be losers unless the accounting profession re-evaluates its role and responsibilities to its stakeholders. Given the accounting and corporate governance scandals North America has witnessed in the past few years, as well as the actual and anticipated regulatory response in Canada, the scope of auditor liability is bound to expand once again.

Keywords: Canada Business Corporations Act, amendments, proportionate liability scheme, auditors, narrowing liability, stakeholders, scope of auditor liability

Suggested Citation:

Ben-Ishai, Stephanie and Puri, Poonam, Proportionate Liability Under the CBCA in the Context of Recent Corporate Governance Reform: Canadian Auditors in the Wrong Place at the Wrong Time? (June 30, 2003). Canadian Business Law Journal, Vol. 39, pp. 36-51, 2003 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1427833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
RANK
461,979
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Behavioral Evidence on the Effects of Principles- and Rules-Based Standards

By Mark W. Nelson

Earnings Quality Under Rules- vs. Principles-Based Accounting Standards: A Test of the Skinner Hypothesis

By Erin Webster and Daniel B. Thornton

Principles-Based Versus Rules-Based Accounting Standards: The Influence of Standard Precision and Audit Committee Strength on Financial Reporting Decisions

By Christopher P. Agoglia, Timothy Doupnik, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies