Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Analysis of Firms' Cash Flows

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Jul 2009

James Ohlson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

JK Aier

George Mason University

Date Written: July 14, 2009

Abstract

This paper revisits the whys and hows of cash flows analysis. In a context of equity valuation, three aspects are considered. First, we consider why there is demand for an analysis of cash flows that complements GAAP’s income statement. The issues here pertain to the ambiguity inherent in accruals, primarily due to current and past non-recurring items, and how one assesses the quality of earnings. Second, we suggest how an analysis of cash flows should be done to assess the extent of biases in accruals. We propose a framework of Modified Cash Accounting (MCA) which satisfies a crucial property: It works just like a regular income statement except that it eschews all accruals. Because a MCA statement depends on consecutive balance sheets (like any standard accounting framework), the core of MCA hinges on what assets/liabilities have been qualified as cash, approximate cash, and the negative thereof. It differs from GAAP’s statement of cash flows because it relies on a broader concept of 'cash,' and MCA has a clear format like an income statement. The paper motivates and shows in some detail how one develops a MCA statement. A final issue deals with how one can assess the quality of (GAAP) earnings statement by comparing it to a MCA statement. We start from the observation that MCA earnings and GAAP earnings should be the same under the ideal condition when the firm is in a steady state. We then discuss how one can estimate a firm’s current-period growth and use this to estimate a normal accrual; this number can then be added to MCA’s earnings to obtain a bottom-line that compares to GAAP’s earnings.

Keywords: quality of earnings, modified cash accounting, cash earnings, normal accrual

JEL Classification: M41, G17, G30, M20

Suggested Citation:

Ohlson, James and Aier, Jagadison K, On the Analysis of Firms' Cash Flows (July 14, 2009). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1434230
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies