Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legitimacy to Develop Fair Value Measurement Standards: The Case of the IVSC Discussion Paper – Determination of Fair Value of Intangible Assets for IFRS Reporting Purposes

Review of Business Research, Vol. 9, No. 3, 2009

12 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2009

Adela Deaconu

Babes-Bolyal University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Nistor Cristina Silvia

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Filip Crina

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: August 4, 2009

Abstract

This research studies, through a content analysis of the comment letters to the IVSC’s project on intangible assets fair value determination, the legitimacy of this professional body, or of the accounting associations, to develop measurement standards specific to this accounting concept. At present, with the exception of FAS 157, no professional standard offers clear technical solutions for fair value determination for financial reporting purposes. We came to the conclusion that, out of the number of respondents, accountants were more reserved than valuators in what regards the IVSC regulating fair value measurement. The Anglo-Saxon respondents are more opened to accept the IVSC DP compared to respondents from other countries, hence the IVSC’s legitimacy to develop fair value measurement standards. Overall, we consider that accounting bodies, rather than valuation bodies, should have legitimacy to develop fair value measurement standards.

Keywords: fair value, professional standards, valuation techniques, guidance, project acceptation, value hierarchy

JEL Classification: M48, M41, G12, G34, M16, M21

Suggested Citation:

Deaconu, Adela and Cristina Silvia, Nistor and Crina, Filip, Legitimacy to Develop Fair Value Measurement Standards: The Case of the IVSC Discussion Paper – Determination of Fair Value of Intangible Assets for IFRS Reporting Purposes (August 4, 2009). Review of Business Research, Vol. 9, No. 3, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1443986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
B Barlev , J R Haddad
Fair value accounting and the management of the firm Posted: 2002
Crossref
G D Carnegie , C J Napier
Critical and interpretative histories: insights into accounting's present and future through its past
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 7 - 39 Posted: 1996
Crossref
C Dawson
Practical Research Methods Posted: 2002
A Deaconu
Valoarea justă -concept contabil (Fair value -an accounting concept), MBA course, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,571
RANK
164,343
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies