Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social and Environmental Reporting: Another Dimension for Accounting Information

9 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2009

Camelia Iuliana Lungu

Academy of Economic Studies, Bucharest

Chirata Caraiani

Academy of Economic Studies

Cornelia Dascalu

Academy of Economic Studies

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Daniela Sahlian

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Date Written: August 11, 2009

Abstract

Traditional accounting has lost its instrumental ability of entailing the informational dimensions that are requested in the process of comprehending the phenomenon of identifying and reporting entity’s activity in the context of sustainable development. We would venture to suggest that the financial statements considered under the instruments of traditional accounting must be reconfigured in a larger context under the subtle influence of social and environmental attractors. Therefore, we consider that besides the principles exposed in traditional accounting, a set of principles that underpin the role of the society and of the environment in this context will develop a holistic vision of entity’s reporting.

In this article, we analyze the status of development in social and environmental reporting literature and practice and focus on the issues requested for presentation and their implications on shareholders’ information needs. Also, the paper allows new approaches regarding the reporting of high quality information and its implementation into entities’ financial statements, ensuring premises for future research. The data coming from accounting literature, accounting settlers’ requirements and entities’ experience are gathered, analyzed and interpreted in order to bring to light an underlying coherence and sense for the new perspective of reporting: corporate social and environmental reporting.

Keywords: Social and environmental information, Financial and non-financial reporting, Voluntary disclosure, Relevant and reliable information, Corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: M40, M48, Q51, Q56, Q57

Suggested Citation:

Lungu, Camelia Iuliana and Caraiani, Chirata and Dascalu, Cornelia and Guse, Raluca and Sahlian, Daniela, Corporate Social and Environmental Reporting: Another Dimension for Accounting Information (August 11, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1447247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1447247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) (2001) Environmental, Social and Sustainability Reporting on the World Wide Web: A Guide to Best Practice
Certified Accountants Educational Trust
P Albuquerque , B Bronnenberg , C Corbett
A Spatio-temporal Analysis of Global Diffusion of ISO Certification
Management Science , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 451 - 468 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O Altenburger , M Schaffhauser-Linzatti
About scope and focus of notes -a new approach to highlight intangibles, 30 th Annual Congress of
European Accounting Association Posted: 2007
V Beattie , B Mc Innes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: a comprenhensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , issue 28 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,012
RANK
13,053
7 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Sustainability Reporting by Australian Public Sector Organisations: Why They Report

By Federica Farneti and James Guthrie

Social and Environmental Reporting: The Australian Food and Beverage Industry

By Suresh Cuganesan, Leanne Ward, ...

Sustainability Reporting in Australian Public Sector Organisations: Why They Report

By Federica Farneti and James Guthrie

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies