Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constructing Consistent Financial Planning Models for Valuation

IIMS Journal of Management of Science, Vol. 1, January-June 2010 (Inaugural Issue)

29 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2009 Last revised: 24 Jun 2012

Ignacio Velez-Pareja

Grupo Consultor CAV Capital Advisory & Valuation

Date Written: August 15, 2009

Abstract

In this work we show a simplified financial planning model. In reality, financial planning models are huge and cumbersome. This is a very simplified model compared with what is found in practice. We present some basic principles for constructing the financial statements needed for valuation. We show in detail all the items of the financial model and show the formulas to be used for constructing the financial planning model. The relevant financial statements are: the Balance Sheet (BS), the Income statement (IS) and the Cash Budget (CB). The construction of the financial statements starts from input data and policies and/or targets (i.e. accounts receivable policy or target). With these targets or policies we can construct the financial statements. The contribution of this work is double: one is to show that we can construct financial statements without the use of plugs and circularity and the second is that we can use a very simple approach to construct cash flows and to value them. The model shown has two parts. One is the proper financial statements forecast. The second one is a simple cash flow calculation and valuation exercise using the Capital Cash Flow and assuming the risk of the tax savings equal to Ku, the cost of unlevered equity.

Keywords: Accounting, Forecasting Financial Statements, Decision Making, plugs, Planning and control, double entry principle, unbalancing problem, cash flows, firm valuation, cost of unlevered equity

JEL Classification: D60, E47, G31, H43

Suggested Citation:

Velez-Pareja, Ignacio, Constructing Consistent Financial Planning Models for Valuation (August 15, 2009). IIMS Journal of Management of Science, Vol. 1, January-June 2010 (Inaugural Issue), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1455304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Simon Benninga
Conference: Teaching of Finance with Excel
Guest Speaker in 4 th National and 1 st International Symposium for the Teaching in Finance Posted: 2007-06-20
Simon Benninga
Principles of Finance with Excel Posted: 2006
Crossref
Richard Brealey , Stewart C Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance, 7 Posted: 2003
F Modigliani , M Miller
The Cost of Capital, Corporation Finance and the Theory of Investment
American Economic Review , volume 48 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 297 Posted: 1958
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,555
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,265
RANK
27,499
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Return to Basics: Are You Properly Calculating Tax Shields?

By Ignacio Velez-pareja

Cost of Capital When Dividends are Deductible

By Ignacio Velez-pareja and Julián Benavides Franco

Risky Tax Shields and Risky Debt: A Monte Carlo Approach

By Ignacio Velez-pareja

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies