Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Focus on . . . Beneficiary Designations for Individual Retirement Accounts

Journal of Pension Benefits, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 47-55, Winter 2001

10 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2009

David A. Pratt

Albany Law School

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

Although IRAs are now ubiquitous, the specific details of such plans often are overlooked and important decisions are made without much forethought. An essential component, and an often significant portion, of a complete retirement program, the IRA document requires the same diligence and attention as do the owner's other estate planning documents. The terms of the agreement and the impact of beneficiary designations must be integrated into the overall estate plan for maximum benefit.

Keywords: beneficiary, individual retirement accounts, IRA

Suggested Citation:

Pratt, David A., Focus on . . . Beneficiary Designations for Individual Retirement Accounts (2001). Journal of Pension Benefits, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 47-55, Winter 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1456416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
897,570
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Pension Risk Management eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies