Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Benchmarking the Accounting and Finance Functions of Hong Kong Firms

Journal of Business and Economics Research, Vol. 1, No. 9, pp. 19-34, 2003

16 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2009 Last revised: 10 May 2011

Steven P. Landry

Naval Postgraduate School

Terrance Jalbert

University of Hawaii - Department of Business Administration

Canri Chan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

In this article the results of a Benchmarking study sponsored by the Hong Kong Society for Accountants, Financial Management Committee are reported. The study, in the form of a survey, was sent to 633 listed Hong Kong firms. Sixty-seven firms responded to the survey crossing six different industries and a variety of capitalization levels. The survey consisted of thirty-two questions that addressed seven areas of interest related to the accounting and finance functions within the firms. The results provide benchmarks by which firms can compare their operations to those of other similar firms. Firms can identify strengths, weaknesses and best practices and utilize the information to make changes in their organizations. By doing so, firms may be able to achieve improved competitiveness and increased profitability.

Keywords: Benchmarking, Hong Kong, Accounting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Landry, Steven P. and Jalbert, Terrance and Chan, Canri, Benchmarking the Accounting and Finance Functions of Hong Kong Firms (2003). Journal of Business and Economics Research, Vol. 1, No. 9, pp. 19-34, 2003 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1461776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Aacsb Website
Salary Data for New Doctorate Hires Posted: 2002-05-27
Exchange Rate Quotations
Ondada Corporation Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
456,685
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies