Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence on the Profitability of Credit Card Arbitrage

Financial Services Review, Vol. 17, No, 1, pp. 31-48, 2008

Posted: 30 Aug 2009 Last revised: 4 Mar 2010

Terrance Jalbert

University of Hawaii - Department of Business Administration

Jonathan D. Stewart

Abilene Christian University

Mercedes Jalbert

The Institute for Business and Finance Research

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Financial institutions frequently offer low introductory interest rates to entice individuals to open and use credit accounts with their firm. This paper examines the possibility of earning arbitrage profits by taking advantage of these special offers. We develop a formula to measure the profit potential from undertaking credit card arbitrage and identify conditions conducive to profitable and unprofitable arbitrage. In addition, we examine the sensitivity of the arbitrage transaction to changes in interest rates, interest rate levels, and fees. Finally, we examine the impact of credit card arbitrage on the credit rating of the arbitrageur.

Keywords: credit cards, arbitrage

JEL Classification: G1, G2

Suggested Citation:

Jalbert, Terrance and Stewart, Jonathan D. and Jalbert, Mercedes, Evidence on the Profitability of Credit Card Arbitrage (2008). Financial Services Review, Vol. 17, No, 1, pp. 31-48, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1464193
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies