Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Return Preparers' Uses and Disclosures of Tax Return Information

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 2009-36

26 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2009 Last revised: 28 May 2010

Lawrence Lokken

University of Florida College of Law

Date Written: September 5, 2009

Abstract

It is a criminal offense for a tax return preparer to make an unauthorized use or disclosure of tax return information, and such a use or disclosure is also subject to a civil penalty. The Treasury, in 2008, restated the regulations under the rules imposing these sanctions. The new regulations broaden the scope of several of the crucial terms. For example, for purposes of these rules, the term 'tax return information' includes all information coming into a preparer’s possession in the course of preparing a taxpayer’s return, including, for example, data on a credit card that the taxpayer uses to pay the preparer’s fee, and the term 'tax return preparer' includes all employees of a preparation firm having access to tax return information, including, for example, a clerical employee whose only role in the preparation of a return is to process the taxpayer’s credit card payment of the preparer’s fee. The regulations forbid all uses and disclosures of tax return information, except those explicitly permitted by the regulations. Without a taxpayer’s consent, a preparer can generally use or disclose this information only in connection with preparation of the taxpayer’s return. Almost any use or disclosure is permissible with the taxpayer’s consent, but consent must be in writing, clearly stated, and given before the use or disclosure occurs. For example, a use of taxpayer information to solicit business other than tax preparation services is permissible only with the taxpayer’s prior written consent. This article, an excerpt from a forthcoming revision of the treatise, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates & Gifts, discusses the use and disclosure regulations.

Suggested Citation:

Lokken, Lawrence, Tax Return Preparers' Uses and Disclosures of Tax Return Information (September 5, 2009). University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 2009-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1469013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1469013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Reg
7216-2T(o)(2) Ex. 2
Reg
, p. 7216 - 7218
Crossref
Reg
, p. 7216 - 7218
Crossref
Reg
7216-2T(o)(1); Notice Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Carlo Garbarino
The Use of Cross-Border Corporate Profits and Losses and 'Global Corporate Tax Information': A Game Theory Approach
Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2297397 · 33 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2013 · Downloads: 137
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
407,466
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies