Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Liability of Accountants Under the Securities Act

CPA Journal, pp. 90-93, 1986

5 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2009

Christine Neylon O'Brien

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: October 28, 1986

Abstract

Within the context of the general trend toward expanding legal liability, the accounting profession is no exception. Accountants were formerly a largely autonomous, self-regulating profession, largely immune from outside regulatory and legal pressures. While accountants have strengthened their standards and educational requirements, the specter of liability and the development of increased disciplinary activity have worked to create an environment which necessitates an assessment of the law's treatment of accountants. The author examines the civil and criminal liability statutes covering accountants, SEC Rules, as well as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The author concludes that due to this uncertainty, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and state Certified Public Accountant societies must provide guidance for their members, as well as provide much-needed legislative oversight and government regulation initiatives and proposals.

Suggested Citation:

O'Brien, Christine Neylon, The Liability of Accountants Under the Securities Act (October 28, 1986). CPA Journal, pp. 90-93, 1986 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1495829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,278
RANK
470,088
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies