Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National and Office-Specific Measures of Auditor Industry Expertise and Effects on Audit Quality

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

53 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2009

Kenneth John Reichelt

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Dechun Wang

Texas A&M University

Date Written: November 5, 2009

Abstract

Our paper examines whether audit quality is higher for industry audit specialists at the national and city-office levels using the framework developed in Ferguson et al. [2003] and Francis et al. [2005]. We find that auditors who are both national and city-specific industry specialists have clients with the lowest abnormal accruals, suggesting that joint national and city-specific industry specialists have the highest audit quality. In addition, we find some evidence that abnormal accruals of firms audited by city-industry specialists alone (without also being national specific industry specialists) are lower than those audited by non-industry specialists. Using alternative measures of audit quality, we find that when the auditor is both a national and a city-specific industry specialist, its clients are less likely to meet or beat analysts’ earnings forecasts by one penny per share and more likely to be issued a going-concern audit opinion. Together these results provide consistent evidence that audit quality is higher when the auditor is both a national and city-specific industry specialist, suggesting that auditors’ national positive network synergies and the individual auditors’ deep industry knowledge at the office level are jointly important factors in delivering higher audit quality.

Keywords: Earnings quality, abnormal accruals, earnings benchmarks, auditor industry expertise, Big 4 accounting firms, modified audit opinions, going-concern audit opinions

JEL Classification: M41, M21

Suggested Citation:

Reichelt, Kenneth John and Wang, Dechun, National and Office-Specific Measures of Auditor Industry Expertise and Effects on Audit Quality (November 5, 2009). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1503476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
L S Aiken , S G West
Multiple Regression: Testing and Interpreting Interactions Posted: 1991
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman
Corporate Financial Distress: A Complete Guide to Predicting, Avoiding, and Dealing with Bankruptcy Posted: 1983
H ; R Ashbaugh , B W Lafond; , Mayhew
Do Nonaudit Services Compromise Auditor Independence? Further Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 639 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,374
RANK
41,143
166 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Auditor Industry Specialization and Earnings Quality

By Steven Balsam, Jagan Krishnan, ...

Auditor Industry Specialization and Client Disclosure Quality

By Kimberly Dunn, Brian W. Mayhew, ...

Audit Firm Industry Specialization as a Differentiation Strategy: Evidence from Fees Charged to Firms Going Public

By Brian W. Mayhew and Michael S. Wilkins

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies