Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Success Without Upward Mobility: Evidence from Small Accounting Practices

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship

Posted: 17 Nov 2009

Irene M. Gordon

Beedie School of Business, Simon Fraser University

Carolyne Smart

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Policy Analysis Area

Colleen Collins-Dodd

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Marketing Area

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

How small business success is defined is evaluated by exploring the definitions of and relationships between business and personal success. Survey responses are gathered from those operating sole proprietorship accounting businesses. The data consist of quantitative and qualitative elements. Quantitative responses consist of importance ratings for the nineteen business success items plus the individual respondents' demographic characteristics, such as age and income level. The qualitative data are the written personal success definitions provided by the respondents. Controlling for business and personal characteristics, it is found that client satisfaction and personal success are most important in defining business success, whereas personal success is more closely related to the business success factor of personal success than to client satisfaction. Nineteen success factors are developed based on the financial services sector. Categories are broken down into people-centered, innovation/technology, financial, self-actualization, and networking/social elements. Findings indicate that for this sample of accounting business proprietors, business success is primarily defined by customer satisfaction followed by personal success, which are people-centered dimensions. Further, whether owner-managers with different personal or professional characteristics define business success in the same way, the findings show that they generally do. However, some groups do find financial success to be the most important sign of success. (JSD)

Keywords: Accounting firms, Customer satisfaction, Demographics, Client relations, Firm performance, Personal success, Satisfaction

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Irene M. and Smart, Carolyne and Collins-Dodd, Colleen, Success Without Upward Mobility: Evidence from Small Accounting Practices (2005). University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1506806
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies