Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
100 Questions (and Answers) About IFRS

64 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2010 Last revised: 5 Mar 2012

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: December 31, 2011

Abstract

IFRS are cultural artefacts. They are spreading worldwide, often under the benign encouragement by entities such as the World Bank, and possibly through regulators suggesting the advantages of competitive innovation. But the spread of IFRS is not like the spread of muskets two centuries earlier. They do not similarly offer a prohibitive advantage to new adopters, but have to be gently harnessed to each local legal and professional habitus.

Once this happens, IFRS are not the same worldwide. Think of McDonalds hamburgers. When eating hamburgers in Shanghai or Siena, what I am offered is different: there is no Kiwiburger (with its typical beetroot) over there. IFRS, being cultural artefacts, are transformed to meet local ‘consumer demand’ (user needs) e.g. they may be used for a selective number of entities, or every entity (as happened in NZ from 2007: including a charity, sports club, the national Government, or a local city council).

Plus, a translator of IFRS into the local language is more than a shape-shifter or skin-changer (as Tolkien described Beorn): languages embody different ways of thinking. You would be very unwise to attempt to understand the differential reception or impact of IFRS with a largely discredited quantitative approach such as Hofstede’s cultural indices. A nation state is rarely one culture, and yet IFRS become culturally embedded.

More and more, quality research as reported in this Handbook reflects that the impact of IFRS in share markets worldwide depends on local enforcement and monitoring. Even in one small share market, IFRS is not a package deal. It is a number of standards applied to a greater or lesser degree to variety of transactions in a diversity of companies, monitored by numerous auditors. The auditor might use the English version of the IFRS or IAS, or they might use the local version. Roll your sleeves up and talk to a good number of local auditors and preparers. Understand their understandings. We need such research.

Here’s another metaphor: when you have an X-ray the utility or benefit it of it depends on the expertise of those interpreting the picture of what lies within. At first, the use of X-ray (Roentgen Rays) had some disastrous side effects (childhood leukaemia in babies X-rayed in utero) because the exact impact was not well understood. As with looking at an X-ray, financial reports based on IFRS have to be examined with an expert gaze to understand what lies beneath, or within the entity, as seen in its financial report. World-wide we are all learning what can be seen and what can’t. We cannot stop another financial crisis occurring with IFRS adoption. But we might reduce its disastrous impact with better educated and more expert users of IFRS (preparers and auditors).

I hope you are on the path towards developing such an expert eye, and that this Handbook will assist.

This Handbook has been revised extensively since its first publication in December 2009. It contains a hundred questions and answers about IFRS, prepared as a resource for my students at the Universities of Victoria (Wellington, New Zealand) and Exeter in the UK, so it is idiosyncratically written with a level of personal familiarity, as they know me well.

It might have been called ‘IFRS for Dummies’, excepting that was published last year, and the name is heavily copyrighted. This Handbook is replete with references to other authors, as it is intended as a resource so that when planning research projects, or writing essays and assignments, students may find an entry point into the extensive IFRS literature. For any one of these 100 questions, the Abstracts offer key search words to use with any Search Engine of choice. Most of the material is referenced from, www.ssrn.com.

Keywords: questions, answers, IFRS

JEL Classification: M40, N20, L50, K20, O57

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F., 100 Questions (and Answers) About IFRS (December 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1526846 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1526846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Christoph See Also , Andreas Spengel , Oestreicher
Tax Harmonisation in Europe -The Determination of Corporate Taxable Income in the EU Member States, ZEW -Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No , p. 7 - 035 Posted: 2007
John R Graham , Jana Smith Raedy , Douglas A Shackelford
Translation: Are there translations of IFRS? European-wide application of IAS/IFRS may not be sufficient to ensure equivalent quality of financial reporting, as one problem is the translation of IFRS from the original English into other languages (Wong
Research in Accounting for Income Taxes Posted: 2004
However, as noted by the IASB ‗it is crucial that users, preparers, legislators, lawyers, educators, students and all other interested parties have access to the IASB's standards in their native language' (www.ifrs.org )
The IASB's working language is English
International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation (2001) ‗Translating IFRS', IASB Insight , p. 15 - 21
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu
From SAS to IFRS - Emerging Issues and Implications for Nigeria
12 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 1,156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu
International Financial Reporting Standards- an Emerging Market Perspective
10 Pages · Posted: 1 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 536
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
7,340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24,920
RANK
2,158
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies