Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the Statute of Limitations Maze in the Federal Income Tax Arena

Mountain Plains Journal of Business and Economics, Forthcoming

24 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2010

Joseph S. Merrill

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Katherine D. Black

Utah Valley University

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

Individual taxpayers frequently realize that a tax return filed with the IRS needs to be changed for various reasons. Perhaps previously estimated amounts are later discovered to have been in error, prior ignorance may have been rectified, or new interpretations of law have been rendered by the courts or the IRS. The need to adjust a previously filed return may be discovered in the year of filing, or several years later.

This article discusses the unusual maze that must be navigated by a taxpayer desiring to file a claim for refund resulting from a change in a previously filed return. The scope is limited to an individual and an unusual specific set of facts. However, the general principles illustrate the problems that may be encountered by practitioners and taxpayers in this otherwise seemingly straight forward area.

Keywords: Statute of Limitations, Tax

Suggested Citation:

Merrill, Joseph S. and Black, Katherine D., Navigating the Statute of Limitations Maze in the Federal Income Tax Arena (January 1, 2010). Mountain Plains Journal of Business and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1530271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Williams V
Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities, 54 Conn. App. 2 A.2d 902 (1999), certification granted in part Posted: 2000
2d 551 (Minn. 1994); Statutes of limitations are procedural
S.W
Am , Jur
2d Limitation of Actions § § 22; citing Isley v. Capuchin Province, 878 F
Sinclair V Brill
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,603
RANK
496,121
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies