Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Company Learning and Growth Capabilities on the Customer Related Performance

36 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2010

Yi-Feng Yang

Shu-Te University

Lokman Mia

Griffith University - School of Accounting and Finance - Gold Coast Campus

Majidul Islam

Concordia University, Quebec - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 10, 2010

Abstract

This study investigates the relationship between a company’s customer related performance and its learning and growth capabilities. Following balanced scorecard (BSC) perspective, a company’s learning and growth capabilities are viewed to comprise human resource service capability (HRSC), information technology service capability (ITSC), and marketing service capability (MKSC). A total of 400 questionnaires were distributed to managers in four Taiwanese banks that had applied the BSC perspective to their customer service operations. Multiple hierarchical regressions were used to analyze the data. The results reveal that a company’s customer related performance is positively associated with the interactions of its HRSC, ITSC, MKSC. Implications of the results are discussed in the paper.

Keywords: BSC, HR-service capability, IT-service capability, MK-service capability, customer related performance

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yi-Feng and Mia, Lokman and Islam, Majidul, The Impact of Company Learning and Growth Capabilities on the Customer Related Performance (January 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1534229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1534229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
N J Allen , J P Meyer
The Measurement and Antecedents of Affective, Continuance and Normative Commitment
Journal of Occupational Psychology , volume 63 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1990
Crossref
N J Allen , J Smith
An Investigation of "Extract-role" Behaviors within Organizations. Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Canadian Psychological Association Posted: 1987-06
B M Bass
Leadership and Performance Beyond Expectations Posted: 1985
W G Bennis , G Nanus
Leaders Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,623
RANK
464,622
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Culture-Free Leadership Effectiveness Versus Moderators of Leadershp Behavior an Extension and Test of Kerr and Jermier's "Substitutes for Leadership" Model in Taiwan

By Jiing-lih Larry Farh, Philip M. Podsakoff, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies