Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Example of an Estate Plan

New Zealand Law Journal, pp. 105-112, 1979

Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 27/2015

9 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2010 Last revised: 8 Mar 2015

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: 1979

Abstract

This plan follows a previous article by the author, “Estate Planning Checklist” [1979] NZLJ 78, available on SSRN at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1545523 . The plan is in the form of a letter sent to instructing solicitors about a fictional client and details the aspects of his estate that require planning and the potential benefit of doing so.

As at 2009, much of the substantive law on which the plan was based has been amended or repealed. In particular, while the Estate and Gift Duties Act 1968 is still on the statute book, the rates of the estate duty are now zero, in effect abolishing the tax. Nevertheless, the plan may be of historic or comparative interest, and the methodology employed may be useful for practitioners advising personal clients.

Keywords: Estate Planning, Example, Estate Duty, Gift Duty, Will, New Zealand, Tax, Managing Personal Assets

JEL Classification: K11, K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, Example of an Estate Plan (1979). New Zealand Law Journal, pp. 105-112, 1979, Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 27/2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1545525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,160
RANK
163,928
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies