Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocating Income Taxes to Operating and Financing Activities: An Analysis of the IASB/FASB Discussion Paper on Financial Statement Presentation

Posted: 8 Mar 2010

Michael Calegari

Santa Clara University - Accounting

Date Written: February 14, 2010

Abstract

This article analyzes the tax aspects of the IASB/FASB Discussion Paper on Financial Statement Presentation. In their Discussion Paper, the Boards contend that income taxes should not be allocated between the newly proposed business and financing sections of financial statements because tax allocation (1) is not always useful, (2) is somewhat arbitrary, and (3) can be complex. This article describes several benefits to extending intraperiod tax allocation and observes that the new format introduces a bias against companies that invest in strategies that generate implicit taxes. Defining arbitrary tax allocations as those that do not help users assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of future cash flows, the article suggests that combining current year and prior year tax effects in a single income tax expense distorts users’ ability to assess future cash flows. Separately reporting the tax effects of current year and prior year pretax income may remove the stigma of arbitrariness associated with tax allocations and reduce complexity. The article includes examples of alternative financial statement formats that include income tax allocations that might benefit users and proposes a solution to the Boards’ example of a complex allocation. The study concludes that additional research on arbitrary and complex tax allocations is needed so that the stakeholders in the accounting regulator process can make informed decisions on intraperiod income tax allocation issues.

Keywords: Intraperiod Income Tax Allocation, Financial Statement Analysis, Operating And Financing Activities

JEL Classification: M44

Suggested Citation:

Calegari, Michael, Allocating Income Taxes to Operating and Financing Activities: An Analysis of the IASB/FASB Discussion Paper on Financial Statement Presentation (February 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1553488
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,462
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies