Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of the Expenses on Corporate Governance, Through Financial Reporting: A Review

Ilorin Journal of Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 175-184

16 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2010

Abubakar Kasum

University of Ilorin

Date Written: February 19, 2010

Abstract

Whatever is incurred by a business for whatever purpose and no matter how good the course of the expenditure is, is borne by the owners of the business. This paper reviews the multiple means by which businesses can incur expenses on accountant, towards ensuring that managers are truly financially accountable. To be able to achieve this, the nature of business accounting practices of internal accountant, internal auditor, statutory auditor and investigative accountant, were brought into context. Their evolution, nature of work and the practitioners in the field were reviewed. The study revealed that, the practices are indeed evolutionary and usually in response to emergent situations and conditions. It was also brought out that the practices are similar and in fact substitutable if well organized. That to date, it is being performed by people of the same educational background and professional calling, so much that it is possible that one individual can serve as any of the four, at the same time for different organizations.

Keywords: Expenses, Corporate Gorvernace, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Kasum, Abubakar Sadiq, An Evaluation of the Expenses on Corporate Governance, Through Financial Reporting: A Review (February 19, 2010). Ilorin Journal of Business and Social Sciences, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 175-184, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1555596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R A Adams
Public Sector Accounting and Finance Made Simple, Third Ed Posted: 2002
A A Adeniji
Auditing and Investigation Posted: 2004
M Bello
The Practice of Auditing Posted: 2000
T L Coenen
Forensic Accounting: A new twist in bean counting Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
RANK
377,395
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies