Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Roth IRA Conversions in 2010: Issues and Opportunities

CPA Journal, January 2010

Fordham Graduate School of Business Research Paper

Posted: 21 Feb 2010

Robin Lovell Knowles

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

In 2010, a restriction limiting the ability of many taxpayers to convert traditional Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA) to a Roth IRA will be lifted. Also, as tax rates are expected to increase after 2010, many taxpayers may find 2010 an ideal time to convert their traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. This article summarizes the taxation of investing in various vehicles, as well as the current restriction on IRA conversions and the changes taking place in 2010. It then examines the advantages and disadvantages of converting a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA and suggests preferred investments to be held in each type of account, in light of the dramatically different tax treatments provided to traditional and Roth IRAs, as well as currently taxable accounts.

Keywords: Individual Retirement Account, Roth IRA

Suggested Citation:

Knowles, Robin Lovell and Veliotis, Stanley, Roth IRA Conversions in 2010: Issues and Opportunities (January 1, 2010). CPA Journal, January 2010, Fordham Graduate School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1556383
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,008
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Household Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies