Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CEO Career Concerns on Accruals Based and Real Earnings Management

INSEAD Working Paper No. 2010/13/AC

50 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2010

Elizabeth Demers

University of Waterloo

Chong Wang

Naval Postgraduate School - Graduate School of Business and Public Policy

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2, 2010

Abstract

This paper theoretically and empirically investigates the role of CEO career concerns on accruals based and real activities earnings management. We develop a model of earnings management, rooted in career concerns, that alternatively incorporates the features of the accrual accounting performance measurement system and the negative value-destroying effects of real activities earnings management choices. Our model leads to the surprising prediction that, absent explicit compensation contracts, managers who maximize lifetime compensation in a perfectly competitive labor market would have little incentive to engage in income-increasing accruals manipulation or real activities earnings management in the early stages of their careers. By contrast, mature executives are tapped into managing earnings upward in order to influence their post-retirement labor market value even though the market correctly foresees this type of “signal jamming”. Our empirical results support the hypotheses that younger managers engage in less accruals based and real earnings management than older CEOs, even after controlling for explicit compensation and wealth based incentives, as well as other factors that have been shown to be associated with earnings management. We also find evidence that younger managers choose the “lesser of two evils” by managing accruals rather than opting for value-destroying real activities earnings management choices.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Career Concerns, Discretionary Accruals, Real Activities Management

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Demers, Elizabeth and Wang, Chong, The Impact of CEO Career Concerns on Accruals Based and Real Earnings Management (March 2, 2010). INSEAD Working Paper No. 2010/13/AC, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1562428 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1562428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,002
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,170
RANK
21,946
4 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies