Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aspects of Accounting Codes of Ethics in Canada, Egypt, and Japan

Internal Auditing, Vol. 24, No. 6, pp. 26-34, November-December 2009

18 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2010 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Peereyuth Pete Charoensukmongk

Texas A&M International University

Ahmed Elkassabgi

Texas A&M International University

Kuo-Hao Howard Lee

Texas A&M International University

Abstract

Ethics is defined as the branch of philosophy that concerns values regarding human behavior, pertaining to the rightness and wrongness of actions and to the goodness and badness of the intent and consequences of such actions. Professional accounting organizations recognize the profession's duty to provide ethical guidance to its members. For example, in its Code of Ethics, the Institute of Internal Auditors states the principles and expectations governing behavior of individuals and organizations in the conduct of internal auditing. This article offers a review of ethics codes of accounting professional organizations in Canada, Egypt, and Japan. By considering these codes, accounting professionals, including corporate accountants and internal auditors, will enhance their appreciation of the important role of accounting ethics in countries around the globe.

Keywords: ethics, accounting ethics, code of ethics

JEL Classification: M41, M14, G34

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Murphy and Charoensukmongk, Peereyuth Pete and Elkassabgi, Ahmed and Lee, Kuo-Hao Howard, Aspects of Accounting Codes of Ethics in Canada, Egypt, and Japan. Internal Auditing, Vol. 24, No. 6, pp. 26-34, November-December 2009 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1568324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
T R Piper , M C Gentile , S D Parks
Can Ethics be Taught? Perspectives, Challenges, and Approaches at Harvard Business School
Research studies regarding accounting and business ethics include the following Posted: 1993
E C Ameen , D M Guffey , J J Mcmillan
Gender Differences in Determining Ethical Sensitivity of Future Accounting Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 591 - 597 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Michelle Greenwood
The Study of Business Ethics: A Case for Dr Seuss
Business Ethics: A European Review , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 155 - 162 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Hale , R Huston , Murphy Smith
The Once and Future Accountant: Ethics and the Future Outlook of the U.S. Accounting Profession
International Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Performance Evaluation , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 426 - 440 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
710
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,956
RANK
83,093
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies