Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Voluntary Disclosure and Transparency in Financial Reporting

Corporate Disclosure: Concepts and Practices, pp. 3-8, Pankaj Madhani, ed., ICFAI University Press, 2008

5 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2010 Last revised: 31 Mar 2014

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

There are 3 versions of this paper

Abstract

Firms gain handsomely from building reputation for transparent reporting, as it eventually results in higher management credibility, a higher Price/Earning (P/E) multiple, increased liquidity and a lower cost of capital. To enhance competitiveness, firms view disclosure as an opportunity rather than a burden. The higher the level of disclosure the lower is the information risk premium. Low risk premium provides higher valuation. This article also highlights risks and costs associated with voluntary disclosure. This article discusses the role of voluntary disclosure and transparency in Financial Reporting. It identifies various characteristics and discusses transparency and benefits of voluntary disclosure.

Keywords: Voluntary Disclosure, Transparency, Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., Role of Voluntary Disclosure and Transparency in Financial Reporting. Corporate Disclosure: Concepts and Practices, pp. 3-8, Pankaj Madhani, ed., ICFAI University Press, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,338
RANK
16,682
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Insider Trading and Corporate Governance Structure: Evidence from Southeast Asia

By Mingyi Hung and Robert Trezevant

Insider Trading in Hong Kong: Concentrated Ownership Versus the Legal Environment

By Eric C. Chang, Jun Zhu, ...

The SEC, Retail Investors, and the Institutionalization of the Securities Markets

By Donald C. Langevoort

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies