Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
WACC and Free Cash Flows: A Simple Adjustment for Capitalized Interest Costs

Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, Vol. 50, No. 2, 2010

Posted: 31 Mar 2010

Axel Pierru

King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC)

Date Written: March, 26 2010

Abstract

This paper shows how to value investment projects involving capitalization of interest costs by using the standard WACC method. Whenever capitalized interest costs do not immediately generate proportionate tax shields, one of the assumptions that justify the use of the after-tax weighted average cost-of-capital formula is violated. As an offset to this violation, the project's free cash flows have to be adjusted. We here derive and interpret a simple adjustment formula. A numerical illustration is provided.

Keywords: capitalized interest, WACC, APV, interest tax shield, capitalization

JEL Classification: G11, G3

Suggested Citation:

Pierru, Axel, WACC and Free Cash Flows: A Simple Adjustment for Capitalized Interest Costs (March, 26 2010). Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, Vol. 50, No. 2, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1578807
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies