Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Your Company's Performance: Is the Scorecard Balanced?

Posted: 28 Mar 2010 Last revised: 1 Apr 2010

Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah

Solbridge International School of Business

Date Written: March 27, 2010

Abstract

There is the saying that, 'two heads are better than one." Meaning that in evaluating the performance of organisations, they tend to benefit if they use more than one measurement technique. Despite the fact that business organisations have been advised not to rely solely on single performance measure (financial measures), they continue to do so. The article therefore looks at the balanced scorecard and espouses the benefits that organisations who use them tend to gain. Hence the author is encouraging managers of organisations to balance their scorecards. Thus the question: measuring your company's performance, is the scorecard balanced?

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Performance Measurement, Non Financial Performance Measures

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Mensah, Ben Kwame, Measuring Your Company's Performance: Is the Scorecard Balanced? (March 27, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1579283
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies