Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Definitions of Income, Expenses and Profit in IFRS

Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming

14 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2010

Richard Barker

University of Cambridge - Judge Business School

Date Written: March 27, 2010

Abstract

This paper makes two contributions. First, it demonstrates that income and expenses are incorrectly defined in the Framework, and it proposes alternative definitions. Second, the paper identifies that, in part as a consequence of these incorrect definitions, and in part because there are two, conflicting concepts of profit in IFRS, there is, first, no definition of profit in the Framework and, second, inconsistency and needless complexity in the concept of profit in IAS 1. The issues raised in this paper contribute to the current IASB projects on the conceptual framework and on financial statement presentation.

Keywords: Income, Expenses, Profit, Comprehensive Income, Conceptual Framework, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Barker, Richard, On the Definitions of Income, Expenses and Profit in IFRS (March 27, 2010). Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1579401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R Barker
Reporting Financial Performance , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Cayley
The Principles of Book-Keeping by Double-Entry Posted: 1894
Cnc Drsc
Revenue Recognition -A European Contribution Posted: 2007
E Edwards , P Bell
The Theory and Measurement of Business Income Posted: 1961
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,011
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,608
RANK
18,457
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies