Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of the Cash Flow Statement in Discounted Cash Flow Valuation

Zeitschrift fiir Planung & Unternehmenssteuerung, Vol. 16, pp. 289-324, 2005

Posted: 3 Apr 2010

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

Martin Alexander Meyer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 19, 2005

Abstract

The correct definition and calculation of the free cash flows plays a crucial role in the process of valuing companies. The two main components of a valuation model, free cash flow and the costs of capital, need to be determined simultaneously. The different approaches to valuation are different in the way they integrated the tax shields from debt financing. Each approach requires its specific definition of both cash flows and the cost of capital. Both the DCF-Model for valuation and the cash flow statement are based on the equivalence of the sources and uses of funds. For valuation purposes, the cash flows needed for valuation should be defined consistently and determined by the use of the cash flow statement. This paper derives these definitions and discusses specific problems in the use and design of the cash flow statement as a means of valuation.

Keywords: discounted cash flow valuation, cash flow statement

JEL Classification: G31, G34

Suggested Citation:

Schultze, Wolfgang and Meyer, Martin Alexander, The Use of the Cash Flow Statement in Discounted Cash Flow Valuation (July 19, 2005). Zeitschrift fiir Planung & Unternehmenssteuerung, Vol. 16, pp. 289-324, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1580008
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,610
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies