Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
XBRL and Interoperability of Financial Statements in the U.S.

5 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2010

Hongwei (Harry) Zhu

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Harris Wu

Old Dominion University

Date Written: March 25, 2010

Abstract

In the wake of global financial crisis, there is a pressing need for improving transparency and interoperability of the financials of public companies. XBRL and XBRL taxonomies have the potential of helping us accomplish this objective. In the U.S., the SEC has mandated that all publicly listed companies must file their financial statements using XBRL and the US GAAP taxonomy beginning mid 2009 to late 2014 according to a phased-in schedule. Are the XBRL-based financial statements interoperable? We address this question by analyzing all the annual XBRL financial statements filed to SEC as of this February. We find that the statements still lack interoperability, which is partly caused by issues related to the GAAP taxonomy and misuse of the taxonomy by companies. On average, only 37% data elements are directly comparable between a pair of statements. Our timely findings have practical implications that will ultimately help improve the quality of financial data.

Keywords: XBRL, GAAP, interoperability, data quality, long tail

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Zhu, Hongwei and Wu, Harris, XBRL and Interoperability of Financial Statements in the U.S. (March 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1581511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1581511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Efrim Boritz , Won Gyun No
Auditing XBRL-Related Documents: The Case of United Technologies Corporation
Journal of Information Systems, Forthcoming Pages: 46 Posted: 23 Oct 2008 Last revised: 7 Jan 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Efrim Boritz , Won Gyun No
SEC's XBRL Voluntary Program on Edgar: The Case for Quality Assurance
Pages: 16 Posted: 4 Sep 2008 Last revised: 26 Jul 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
K H Chou
How Valid Are They? An Examination of XBRL Voluntary Filing Dcoments with the SEC EDGAR System
The 14th International XBRL Conference Posted: 2006
R S Debreceny , A Chandra , J J Cheh , D Guithues-Amrhein , N J Hannon , P D Hutchison , D Janvrin , R A Jones , B Lamberton , A Lymer , M Mascha , R Nehmer , S Roohani , R P Srivastava , S Trabelsi , T Tribunella , G Trites , M A Vasarhelyi
Financial Reporting in XBRL on the SEC's EDGAR System: A Critique and Evaluation
Journal of Information Systems , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 191 - 210 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Xitong Li , Hongwei Zhu , Luo Zuo
Reporting Technologies and Textual Readability: Evidence from the XBRL Mandate
Information Systems Research, Forthcoming, HEC Paris Research Paper No. MOSI-2021-1422 · 50 Pages · Posted: 6 Apr 2021 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 413
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,488
RANK
106,137
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

SEC's XBRL Voluntary Program on Edgar: The Case for Quality Assurance

By J. Efrim Boritz and Won Gyun No

A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks - Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program

By Jon W. Bartley, Y. Al Chen, ...

Quality of Data Standards: Empirical Findings from XBRL

By Hongwei (harry) Zhu and Liuliu Fu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies