Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sprouse’s What-You-May-Call-Its: Fundamental Insight or Monumental Mistake?

27 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2010

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Gregory B. Waymire

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 31, 2010

Abstract

We critically evaluate Sprouse (1966 Journal of Accountancy), which prodded FASB towards a balance sheet approach. We highlight 3 errors in this article. First, Sprouse confuses necessary and sufficient conditions by arguing that good accounting systems must satisfy the balance sheet equation. Second, Sprouse’s claim that financial analysts rely on balance sheet analysis is contradicted by contemporary and current security analysis textbooks, analysts’ written reports, and interviews with analysts. Third, and most crucially, Sprouse does not recognize that the primary role of accounting systems is to help managers discover and exploit profitable exchange opportunities, failing which firms cannot survive.

JEL Classification: M44

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and Waymire, Gregory B., Sprouse’s What-You-May-Call-Its: Fundamental Insight or Monumental Mistake? (March 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1583068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1583068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information Content of Equity Analyst Reports , volume 75 , issue 2 , p. 245 - 282 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Ball
The Firm as a Specialist Contracting Intermediary: Application to Accounting and Auditing Posted: 1989-05
M E Barth
Global Financial Reporting: Implications for U.S. Academics
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 5 , p. 1159 - 1180 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Basu , M Kirk , G B Waymire
Memory, transaction records, and The Wealth of Nations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 895 - 917 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,891
RANK
249,957
6 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accounting is an Evolved Economic Institution

By Gregory B. Waymire and Sudipta Basu

Has the Importance of Intangibles Really Grown? And if so, Why?

By Sudipta Basu and Gregory B. Waymire

Economic Crisis and Accounting Evolution

By Gregory B. Waymire and Sudipta Basu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies