Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB: Is it Constitutional or Not?

17 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2010 Last revised: 10 Apr 2010

Ginalyn Sanqui Earwood

Texas Woman's University

Date Written: April 5, 2010

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) is a private-sector, non-profit corporation, created by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to oversee the auditors of public companies to protect the interests of investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, fair, and independent audit reports.

Recently, the Board is faced with a case filed by Free Enterprise Fund regarding the separation of powers principles and Appointment Clause by the Constitution. This paper hopes to shed light on what would be the outcome and implication of the case on the Board’s existence as an effective auditing regulatory body.

Keywords: PCAOB, SEC, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Appointment Clause, audit, internal control, issuer, audit report, auditing standard, audit risks, investors, unconstitutional

Suggested Citation:

Earwood, Gina Sanqui, PCAOB: Is it Constitutional or Not? (April 5, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1584464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1584464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Board Approves Its 2010 Budget and Related Strategic Plan Posted: 2009-11
Kimberly L. Wehle
Presidential Control of the Elite ‘Non-Agency’
North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 88, 2009, University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Pages: 66 Posted: 12 Jan 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Brown , Robert
The PCAOB and Its Unique Regulatory Function. The Race to the Bottom.org Posted: 2008-09
Douglas R Carmichael
The PCAOB and the Social Responsibility of the Independent Auditor Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,276
RANK
475,660
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

By Peter L. Strauss

Supreme Court Amici Brief of Law Professors in Support of Petitioners in Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, No. 08-861

By Donna M. Nagy

Our Twenty-First Century Constitution

By Peter L. Strauss

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies