Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and the Sabbatical: Doctrine, Planning and Policy

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2010

70 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2010 Last revised: 29 Apr 2010

Robert Pikowsky

Georgia Institute of Technology

John A. Miller

University of Idaho College of Law

Date Written: April 5, 2010

Abstract

It is common practice for faculty who go on sabbatical leave to take up temporary residence at another location during the sabbatical period. This temporary relocation has significant income tax implications. These tax implications also arise when a faculty member at one institution serves as a visiting scholar at another institution (a scholar’s visit). This article describes the current income tax treatment of sabbaticals and scholar’s visits and develops the tax planning hurdles and opportunities posed by this treatment. It concludes with a consideration of the policy issues raised by this state of affairs.

Keywords: Taxation, Sabbatical, Faculty, Visits, Deductions, exclusions

Suggested Citation:

Pikowsky, Robert and Miller, John A., Taxation and the Sabbatical: Doctrine, Planning and Policy (April 5, 2010). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 63, No. 3, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1584826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,410
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,639
RANK
13,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies