Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Flexibility and the Impact of Global Financial Crisis: Evidence from France

38 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2010 Last revised: 26 Jan 2011

Franck Bancel

ESCP Business School

Usha R. Mittoo

University of Manitoba - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 15, 2010

Abstract

We survey and interview Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) of French firms in 2009 about the impact of the global financial crisis and their firms’ financial flexibility levels before and during the crisis. Over two-thirds of CFOs report a strong impact of the crisis and cite liquidity problems, banks’ reluctance to lend, and cost cutting as their major concerns. We find that firms with greater internal financing have significantly lower crisis impact. They are also more likely to have lower leverage, higher cash-to-asset ratios, and report a lower effect on their business operations. By contrast, the relation between the firm’s level of access to external financing (self-reported by CFOs) and the crisis impact is much weaker. We also find that firms with high short-term debt are significantly more concerned about financial distress, working capital problems, access to external financing, and more likely to sell assets during the crisis than firms with high long-term debt. Our analysis indicates that an index based on the firm’s leverage, liquidity, and operating ratios, similar to the Altman Z-score, might be a better financial flexibility measure than long-term debt ratio. Our evidence also confirms the findings of prior surveys that financial flexibility is important for capital structure decisions.

Keywords: Financial flexibility, Global financial crisis, Survey, Crisis intensity, Business strategy, France

JEL Classification: F30, G32, G34, G30

Suggested Citation:

Bancel, Franck and Mittoo, Usha R., Financial Flexibility and the Impact of Global Financial Crisis: Evidence from France (December 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1587302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1587302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
H Almeida , M Campello
Financing constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello , B Laranjeira , S Weisbenner
Corporate debt maturity and the real effects of the 2007 credit crisis, NBER working paper 14990 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Franck Bancel , Usha R. Mittoo
The Determinants of Capital Structure Choice: A Survey of European Firms
AFA 2003 Washington, DC Meetings; EFMA 2002 London Meetings Pages: 34 Posted: 2 Feb 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Brav , J Graham , C Harvey , R Michaely
Payout policy in the 21st century
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 77 , p. 483 - 527 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Dinh Tran Ngoc Huy
IMPACTS OF EXTERNAL FINANCING ON THE RISK LEVEL OF VIET NAM NATURAL GAS AND OIL INDUSTRY DURING AND AFTER THE GLOBAL CRISIS 2007-2009
International Journal of Research -GRANTHAALAYAH , volume 3 , issue 9 , p. 49 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Franck Bancel , Jacques Tierny
Firm Valuation with Cash-Flow@Risk
29 Pages · Posted: 25 Nov 2010 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Abdullah Iqbal , Ortenca Kume
Impact of Financial Crisis on Firms’ Capital Structure in UK, France, and Germany
Multinational Finance Journal, Forthcoming · 28 Pages · Posted: 5 Aug 2014 · Downloads: 940
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Amjad Ali , Danish Ahmed Siddiqui
Exploring the Nexus between Financial Flexibility, Managerial Efficiency, Ownership, and Performance: An Interactive Model for Growth, Mature, and Stagnant Companies in Pakistan
35 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2020 · Last revised: 23 May 2022 · Downloads: 321
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
972
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,154
RANK
54,528
4 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Determinants and Implications of Corporate Cash Holdings

By Tim C. Opler, Lee Pinkowitz, ...

The Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash

By Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, ...

Why Do U.S. Firms Hold so Much More Cash than They Used to?

By Thomas W. Bates, Kathleen M. Kahle, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies