Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Off Balance Sheet and Financial Reporting Quality

Posted: 14 Apr 2010

Demikha Lotfi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 14, 2010

Abstract

Companies have used off balance sheet (OBS hereafter) arrangements responsibly, and irresponsibly, for some time (Wayman, 2002). These sorts of transactions were permissible under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and tax laws so that companies could finance business ventures by transferring the risk from the parent to the off balance sheet subsidiary (Lander & Auger 2008). Today, a company that has any kind of off balance sheet item is being tarnished by Enron-gate, whether justified or not. This term paper will define some typical off balance sheet items and discuss whether they are good or bad.

In addition, it will examine the quality of financial statements by providing numbers of researches that have been done to scrutinize the improvement and how they should be.

Keywords: Off Balance Sheet , Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: D82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lotfi, Demikha, Off Balance Sheet and Financial Reporting Quality (April 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1589587
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,300
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies