Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Repositioning of Amben Investment Services Using the Balanced Scorecard and Economic Value Added

22 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2010 Last revised: 28 Apr 2010

Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah

Solbridge International School of Business

Date Written: April 18, 2010

Abstract

Johnson and Kaplan’s Relevance Lost in 1987 revolutionalised management accounting practice and questioned the reliance on financial measures as the sole measuring standard in firms. This has also increased the interest in performance measurement and management and the focus has moved from financial perspective to non financial perspective. This change in focus is relevant as firms now understand that to be able to compete well in this continuously changing environment, it is important to monitor and understand a firm’s performances.

This article investigates how a small sized financial services company is trying to improve its performance by implementing the balanced scorecard and Economic Value Added (EVA) . The author offers advice as to how these two performance measures can be implemented and the benefits the company will gain.

The use of data collected for this study is regulated by a non-disclosure agreement, which requires the researcher to protect the company's identity and to obtain approval to publish any reports that might expose the company's proprietary information. Thus the true identity of the company has been hidden to fulfill the requirements.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Performance measurement, EVA

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Mensah, Ben Kwame, Strategic Repositioning of Amben Investment Services Using the Balanced Scorecard and Economic Value Added (April 18, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1591864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1591864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
R J Eccles
The performance Measurement Manifesto
Harvard Business Review , p. 131 - 137 Posted: 1991-01
Sims , R Smith
Management accounting -Business strategy Posted: 2005
R W Hilton , M W Maher , F H Selto
Cost management -Strategies for business decisions Posted: 2002
F Buytendijk
Balanced Scorecard Tools: comparing apples and oranges Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
169,659
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Economic Consequences, History, Development & Methodology eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact of Contingent Factors on Performance Measures in the Rural Banks of Ashanti Region of Ghana

By Ben Kwame Agyei-mensah

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies