Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The FLP, the Transfer Taxes, and the Income Tax

Tax Notes, May 2010

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 297

19 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2010

Laura Cunningham

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: April 16, 2010

Abstract

Despite repeated calls for reform, Congress has declined to act to curb transfer tax avoidance through the use of family limited partnerships (“FLP’s"). Use of FLP’s allows taxpayers to substantially leverage their exemption from estate tax, and reduce the effective rate of tax on even the most liquid investment assets. This article reviews the current state of the law in the Tax Court on FLP’s, renews the call for Congressional action, and explains why FLP’s are not just a “death tax” problem.

Keywords: Family Limited Partnership, FLP, Estate Tax, Estate Tax Reform, Basis Inconsistency, Valuation Discounts

Suggested Citation:

Cunningham, Laura, The FLP, the Transfer Taxes, and the Income Tax (April 16, 2010). Tax Notes, May 2010, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 297, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1591064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
H
contains a provision denying valuation discounts for non-business assets held within an entity. Those provisions were not
H.R , volume 4154 Posted: 2009-01
Laura E Cunningham
Remember the Alamo: The IRS Needs Ammunition in its Fight Against the FLP Posted: 2000
Laura E Cunningham
FLP Fix Must Be Part of Transfer Tax Reform Posted: 2006
E G See , Alan L Feld
The Implications of Minority Interest and Stock Restrictions in Valuing CloselyHeld Shares Posted: 1974
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
679
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,336
RANK
87,994
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies