Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rules and Regulations Influencing the Published Annual Accounts of Listed Companies in Bangladesh - An Evaluative Study

18 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2010

Jahur Saleh Jahur

University of Chittagong - Finance and Banking

Al Nahian Riyadh

University of New South Wales; University of Chittagong, Bangladesh

Date Written: April 20, 2010

Abstract

Corporate financial reporting is the most important but most misunderstood aspect of our activities. The annual reporting practices of listed companies in Bangladesh are not in line with the regulation to a great extent. Non-compliance of regulators in reporting practices has resulted in inadequate information and can not meet the need of user groups. The objectives of the paper are to examine the important provisions of relevant rules and regulations affecting the preparation of financial statements and financial reporting practices of listed companies in Bangladesh. Theoretical and policy implications of the paper have also been discussed.

Keywords: Bangladesh, Corporate financial reporting, Financial disclosure

JEL Classification: Corporate Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Jahur, Mohammad Saleh and Riyadh, Al Nahian, Rules and Regulations Influencing the Published Annual Accounts of Listed Companies in Bangladesh - An Evaluative Study (April 20, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1592827 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1592827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
RANK
668,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies