Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What's in a Name?: The Role of Danielson in the Taxation of Credit Card Securitizations

Baylor Law Review, Vol. 62, p. 110, 2010

University of Alabama Public Law Research Paper No. 1593648

69 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2010

Grace Soyon Lee

University of Alabama - School of Law

Date Written: April 5, 2010

Abstract

While the doctrine of substance over form has been a part of tax law for over seventy years, courts look disfavorably upon taxpayers who invoke the doctrine to argue against the forms of their own transactions under what is commonly referred to as the Danielson rule. Although the Danielson rule appears sound on its face, it holds less force when applied outside of its original context. In particular, the Danielson rule should not apply when the form given to a transaction is given for non-tax reasons, such as to achieve a particular accounting treatment. The taxation of credit card securitizations provides a particularly acute example of how the Danielson rule could lead taxing authorities to erroneously base the taxation of a transaction on its form for accounting purposes. In this article, I explain why the Danielson rule should not apply to credit card securitizations. First, I describe how credit card securitizations are structured and how they are treated under both the accounting and the tax rules. I then explain the origins and purposes of the Danielson rule, why it should not apply to credit card securitizations, and how it could adversely affect their taxation if applied. By expressly excluding from the scope of the Danielson rule those transactions where the difference between substance and form is rooted in the difference between the accounting and tax regimes, the government will clarify a currently muddled area of law and provide greater certainty to participants in credit card securitizations and similar transactions.

Keywords: Tax, Credit Card, Securitization, Danielson, Disavowal, Accounting, Substance-Form, Strong Proof, Debt, Equity

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Grace Soyon, What's in a Name?: The Role of Danielson in the Taxation of Credit Card Securitizations (April 5, 2010). Baylor Law Review, Vol. 62, p. 110, 2010, University of Alabama Public Law Research Paper No. 1593648, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1593648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Id
at 179 (citing Thor Power Tool Co Posted: 1979
Id
See Id
See id.; supra Part II
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
RANK
375,525
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Alabama School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies