Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using XBRL to Transform Existing Financial Statements into the Proposed Presentation Format

Mustang Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2013

32 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2010 Last revised: 16 Oct 2013

Zane L. Swanson

University of Central Oklahoma

Olga Miranova

University of Central Oklahoma

Date Written: August 8, 2010

Abstract

The study presents a methodology utilizing extensible business reporting language (XBRL) to transform the traditional presentation format of financial statements into the format that the International Accounting Standards Board and the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board have proposed. The analysis reviews the subject matter, including the proposed presentation standard, applicable XBRL background, and a general development of the transformation process. Then, the study illustrates the process by applying the methodology to the financial statements of a specific company. Finally, the study highlights the major points of the analysis and suggests future directions for the research in the area. Latest version available in Mustang Journals.

Keywords: Presentation, Standard, XBRL, Transformation

JEL Classification: M40, G10, C80

Suggested Citation:

Swanson, Zane L. and Miranova, Olga, Using XBRL to Transform Existing Financial Statements into the Proposed Presentation Format (August 8, 2010). Mustang Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1595122 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1595122
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,872
RANK
129,714
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies