Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Befuddlement Betwixt Two Fulcrums: Calibrating the Scales of Justice to Ascertain Fraudulent Transfers in Leveraged Buyouts

American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review, Spring 2011

29 Pages Posted: 1 May 2010 Last revised: 12 May 2011

John Holland Ginsberg

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mary Burgess

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Daniel Richard Czerwonka

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zachary Richard Caldwell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

In a leveraged buyout, a company goes deep in debt and grants liens on its assets to finance the purchase of itself. The debt burden increases the company’s risk of insolvency. The company’s unsecured creditors are exposed to that risk without compensation. The parties to the leveraged buyout - buyer, seller and lender - expect good returns on the lesser risks to which they are exposed. When a leveraged buyout leaves the acquired company with “unreasonably small capital” such that insolvency is “reasonably foreseeable” upon consummation of the buyout, unsecured creditors may have recourse to constructive-fraudulent-transfer law. They need legal recourse because: (1) they are not party to the leveraged buyout; (2) they have no good proxy among the parties, and (3) absent legal recourse, many have no ability to negotiate protection against uncompensated harm. Constructive-fraudulent-transfer law is defective in providing needed recourse. Proof of “unreasonably small capital” is exceedingly expensive, requiring hiring experts to conduct forensic financial analysis of whether insolvency was “reasonably foreseeable” upon closing of the buyout in light of the company’s historical performance, the terms of the buyout loans and all foreseeable risks faced by the company. The “unreasonably small capital” standard is so vague that it is impossible for litigants (or deal parties trying to design terms to avoid risk of liability) to predict the outcome of litigation. This makes it hard for litigants to determine a reasonable settlement figure, and lengthy, expensive trials ensue. More often, aggrieved creditors recognize that pursuing legal recourse is a high-stakes gamble with unpredictable odds, and they settle at a steep discount from the recourse the law purportedly offers. Harm goes unremedied and thus doing harm not properly disincentivized. To fix these defects, we recommend carefully recalibrating the scales of justice through several clarifications of the standard for “unreasonably small capital.” We recommend that the law specify:

• the probability at which cash-flow insolvency becomes “reasonably foreseeable;” • the post-transaction period over which the probability of insolvency is to be projected; • how margin-of-error is to be treated in determining whether insolvency is reasonably foreseeable; and • whether a transfer is fraudulent if insolvency was reasonably foreseeable ex ante but the specific conditions ultimately precipitating insolvency were not.

Keywords: Leveraged Buyout, Private Equity, Fraudulent Transfer, Fraudulent Conveyance, Insolvency, Bankruptcy

JEL Classification: G32, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Ginsberg, John Holland and Burgess, Mary and Czerwonka, Daniel Richard and Caldwell, Zachary Richard, Befuddlement Betwixt Two Fulcrums: Calibrating the Scales of Justice to Ascertain Fraudulent Transfers in Leveraged Buyouts (January 1, 2010). American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review, Spring 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1598922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
See Refunding Risk and Needs for U.S. Speculative-Grade Corporate Issuers, MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE Posted: 2010-02
Acharya
Regarding the wave of insolvencies following the LBO-wave of the 1980s, see Kaplan & Stein, supra note 39 , p. 313 - 357
abstract=1285058; MOODY'S Refunding Risk I, supra note 40, at 2. According to Moody's, [t]he leveraged loan market expanded for a number of reasons during the mid-2000s: abundant market liquidity, lender tolerance for high leverage, the emergence of hedge-fund and private-equity participation in the loan market, covenant-lite structures (especially in early 2007), and numerous new investors in collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). During 1999-2004, the total U.S. leveraged loan market grew from $669 billion to $920 billion
Did Structured Credit Fuel the LBO Boom? 21-22 , p. 29 - 32 Posted: 2009-04-24
Moody&apos;s
Refunding Risk I, supra note 40
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,158
RANK
128,779
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies