Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Financial and Accounting Data – A Company’s Efficient Management

5 Pages Posted: 12 May 2010 Last revised: 23 Oct 2010

Codreanu Diana

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ionela Popa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Cristina Tenovici

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 7, 2010

Abstract

The increasingly competitive business environment, the rapid changes and also the increase in the activities’ complexity within a company require permanent adjustment in a quick manner. ERP have been created as a solution or a response to such attempts, and have the ability to process a high amount of aggregated data and information in order to improve processes and make them even more efficient. Most specialists believe that there is no Enterprise Resource Planning without any financial and accounting information in the operations they administer in these systems.

A financial-accounting pattern gathers and strengthens information related to all the activities of a company thus allowing unitary management to be possible. A financial-accounting pattern itself is not the most important but it is necessary when implementing any ERP application. All the data in a system are centralized in such a financial-accounting pattern, therefore providing the support for various reports.

Keywords: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), management system, financial and accounting information

JEL Classification: M29, M49

Suggested Citation:

Diana, Codreanu and Popa, Ionela and Otilia, Tenovici Cristina, Integrating Financial and Accounting Data – A Company’s Efficient Management (May 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1601925 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1601925
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
D Fotache , L Hurbean
Integrated Information Solutions for Business Management -ERP Posted: 2004
L Fînaru
Information Systems and Company Financial Management Posted: 2000
I Lungu , A-R Bologa , V Diaconiţa , A Bâra , I Botha
Information Systems Integration Posted: 2007
J Myerson
Enterprise Systems Integration Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
209,542
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies