Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between the Reporting of Environmental Capital Expenditure in the 10-K Reports and Online Sustainability Reporting of U.S. Largest Energy and Utilities Companies

6 Pages Posted: 16 May 2010

Elgeritte Adidjaja

Roberts Environmental Center

J. Emil Morhardt

Robert Environmental Center

Date Written: January 12, 2010

Abstract

This paper is a study of the 45 largest U.S. energy and utilities companies demonstrating a correlation between the inclusion by these companies of data on environmental capital expenditures (ECE) in their 2008 10-K annual financial reports and the score that the companies attain on the Pacific Sustainability Index (PSI) - a rating system developed by the Roberts Environmental Center at Claremont McKenna College of the same year. ECE is defined as capitalized environmental costs that are made voluntarily or by government mandate to prevent future environmental contamination, while the PSI is a scoring system measuring the breadth and depth of companies’ online sustainability reporting (CSR). Neither the reporting of ECE in the 10-K reports nor CSR is currently regulated, resulting in a wide variation in companies’ sustainability disclosures. ECE reporters achieve higher PSI scores. A higher ratio of ECE to total capital expenditures or to assets predicts a higher level of PSI scores.

Keywords: sustainability, disclosure, reporting, utilities, energy, environmental, cost, contamination, 10-K, voluntary reporting

Suggested Citation:

Adidjaja, Elgeritte and Morhardt, J. Emil, The Relationship Between the Reporting of Environmental Capital Expenditure in the 10-K Reports and Online Sustainability Reporting of U.S. Largest Energy and Utilities Companies (January 12, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1605329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1605329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Davis Polk
Environmental Disclosure in SEC Filings Posted: 2009
M Freedman , A J Stagliano
Some New Evidence on the Effectiveness of Authoritative Environmental Reporting Guidance
Advances in public interest accounting , volume 13 , issue 13 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M Freedman , A J Stagliano
Environmental disclosures: electric utilities and Phase 2 of the Clean Air Act
Critical Perspectives on Accounting Part Special Issue , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 466 - 486 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D M Patten
The accuracy of financial report projections of future environmental capital expenditures: a research note
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 457 - 468 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,585
RANK
357,528
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies