Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act: A Cost Benefit Analysis Using the U.S. Banking Industry

27 Pages Posted: 16 May 2010 Last revised: 28 May 2010

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

John J. O'Shaughnessy

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

David P. Franz

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 12, 2009

Abstract

There are many analyses of the economic effects that regulations, in general, and Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in particular, have had on American business. This analysis looks at the effect that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has had on the American banking industry. The return on assets and return on equity were obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank for all SEC-registered and nonregistered banks for the period 2000 through 2005. Comparative results indicate that during the period that the Act had been in effect there is a marked negative divergence for SEC-registered banks as opposed to those banks that do not report to the SEC.

Keywords: Sarbanes-Oxley, Banking Industry, Financial Performance

JEL Classification: g18, g21

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and O'Shaughnessy, John J. and Franz, David P., The Sarbanes-Oxley Act: A Cost Benefit Analysis Using the U.S. Banking Industry (April 12, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1608962 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1608962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Forcing Firms to Talk: Financial Disclosure Regulation and Externalities
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Barbara ; Apostolou , R William , Jerry R Pasewark , Strawser
The Effects of Senior Internal Auditor Behaviour on Staff Performance and Satisfaction
Accounting and Business Research , volume 23 , issue 90 , p. 110 - 122 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Byron N Baird , Alfred R Michenzi
The Impact of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
The Internal Auditor , p. 20 - 22 Posted: 1983-06
Crossref
Leonce Bargeron , Kenneth Lehn , Chad J. Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and Corporate Risk-Taking
Pages: 39 Posted: 9 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
551
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,953
RANK
115,106
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Lobbying, Corruption and Political Influence

By Nauro F. Campos and Francesco Giovannoni

Lobbying, Corruption and Political Influence

By Nauro F. Campos and Francesco Giovannoni

The Persistence of Corruption and Regulatory Compliance Failures Theory and Evidence

By Richard Damania, Per G. Fredriksson, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies