Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Social Skill Preferences of Tax Professionals in CPA Firms: A FIRO-B Analysis

Journal of Applied Business Research, Vol. 26, No. 2, p. 105, March 2010

10 Pages Posted: 16 May 2010

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

Michelle Bertolini

University of Hartford

Carl Borgia

Florida Atlantic University - College of Business

Date Written: May 16, 2010

Abstract

The social interaction preferences of tax professionals working in U.S. accounting firms are analyzed and compared with other public accounting firm personnel. Social skill preferences are analyzed using the FIRO-B methodology which has been widely validated and applied to accounting professionals. Considering the high cost of turnover and the nominal cost of using the FIRO-B instrument, it makes sense for businesses and educational institutions to use FIRO-B analysis as an aid in counseling, training, and assisting individuals entering the accounting profession. The findings of this study indicate that tax professionals have significantly higher social interaction preferences than other accounting professionals employed in public accounting. This makes sense in light of the demands put on tax accountants to work with a wide range of other professionals within, and external to, the firm.

Keywords: Tax Professionals, Employee Retention, Social Interaction Index, Social Skills Preferences, FIRO-B

JEL Classification: L29, M51, M49, M12, J41, J24, G29

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and Bertolini, Michelle and Borgia, Carl, The Social Skill Preferences of Tax Professionals in CPA Firms: A FIRO-B Analysis (May 16, 2010). Journal of Applied Business Research, Vol. 26, No. 2, p. 105, March 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1608983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,210
RANK
340,955
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Is European Accounting Research Fairly Reflected in Academic Journals? An Investigation of Possible Non-Mainstream and Language Barrier Biases

By Bernard Raffournier and Alain Schatt

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted to Professor: Evidence from the UK Accounting and Finance Academic Community

By Vivien A. Beattie and Alan Goodacre

A Glance at German Financial Accounting Research between 1950 and 2005: A Publication and Citation Analysis

By Rolf Uwe Fülbier and Manuel Weller

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies