Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Promote Ethics in Corporate Governance?

18 Pages Posted: 21 May 2010

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

John J. O'Shaughnessy

San Francisco State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 20, 2010

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine how the Act impacts ethics in corporate governance. It examines ethical issues in corporate failures and reviews aspects of the Act that promote ethics in corporate governance. It also identifies limitations of the Act in promoting ethics in corporate governance, and presents a summary and conclusion.

Keywords: accounting ethics, Sarbanes-Oxley, corporate governance

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and O'Shaughnessy, John J., Does the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Promote Ethics in Corporate Governance? (May 20, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1612550 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1612550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
R A Bernardi , C C Lacross
Corporate transparency: Code of ethics disclosures
The CPA Journal , volume 75 , p. 34 - 37 Posted: 2005
L Braiotta , Jr , J Zhou
An exploratory study of the effects of the sarbanes-oxley act, the SEC and United States' stock exchange(s) rules on audit committee alignment
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , p. 166 - 190 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2004
C M Daily , D R Dalton
Dollar and sense: The path to board independence
The Journal of Business Strategy , volume 24 , p. 41 - 44 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
550
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,365
RANK
115,379
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies