Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Xilinx, the Arm’s Length Standard and Independent Behavior: Can an Undue Emphasis on Independent Party Behavior Distort Arm’s Length?

Bentley University Working Paper, Forthcoming

27 Pages Posted: 20 May 2010

Brett R. Wilkinson

Baylor University - Department of Accounting & Business Law

Tracy Noga

Bentley University

Date Written: May 15, 2010

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the controversy surrounding the Xilinx case and the question as to whether stock option costs are appropriately included in cost sharing agreements. Although the revised Ninth Circuit decision now affirms the findings of the Tax Court that stock options should not be included in costs sharing agreements, controversy and uncertainty remains. Drawing on the OECD report on employee stock options, we suggest that focusing exclusively on what independent parties do not share may obscure the issue as to exactly what independent parties do share. That is, an undue focus on the specifics of stock option costs and how to share these diverts attention from the fact that the parties are sharing an outcome (i.e. the benefits flowing from the intangible). We conclude by summarizing the uncertainty taxpayers are left with as a result of the Xilinx decisions.

Keywords: Xilinx, Arm's Length, Transfer Pricing

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Wilkinson, Brett R. and Noga, Tracy, Xilinx, the Arm’s Length Standard and Independent Behavior: Can an Undue Emphasis on Independent Party Behavior Distort Arm’s Length? (May 15, 2010). Bentley University Working Paper, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1612325 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1612325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,560
RANK
521,427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies