Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Pricing, Audit Concentration, and Big-4 Premium in Bangladesh

43 Pages Posted: 23 May 2010

A.K.M. Waresul Karim

Saint Mary's College of California - Graduate Business Programs

Date Written: February 23, 2010

Abstract

This paper reports the findings of a comprehensive study of the audit services market of an emerging market economy, namely, Bangladesh. It covers four important aspects of auditing in the country. They are (i) audit concentration; (ii) audit fee trends; (iii) big-four premium; and (iv) audit pricing. Using both conventional and innovative measures of audit concentration, it shows that unlike the market structures commonly found in most developed and many developing country settings, the big-four affiliated audit firms (equivalent to the big-four in countries where big-four firms operate in their own names) do not enjoy significant market power in Bangladesh. They are responsible for auditing only 16.4 percent of listed companies. Their market share ranges from 17.6 percent to 56.1 percent depending on the measure of market share used. This lack of dominant market power might have inhibited their ability to charge fee premia as reflected in their average audit fee standardized by client size. The second issue examined in this paper is the trends in audit fees. The paper reports that while audit fee is apparently increasing in absolute terms, it is indeed declining in relation to growth in client size (i.e., value audited) and also in terms of the purchasing power of the local currency. The third issue analyzed in this paper is whether the big-four affiliated firms in Bangladesh charge any fee premia from their audit clients. Interestingly, although the big-four affiliated firms appear to receive higher average audit fees per client, an in-depth look at their audit fee levels reveals that they actually receive lower average audit fees per unit of client sales or client assets. However, when audit fees are standardized for natural logs of client sales and assets, big-four audit fees are found to be marginally higher than those charged by their non-big counterparts. Finally, the paper revisits audit fee models developed on emerging market economies by Simon et al (1986), Karim and Moizer (1996), Simon (1997) and Ahmed and Goyal (2005) etc.

Keywords: Audit Pricing, Audit Concentration, Big-4 Premium

JEL Classification: G32, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Karim, A.K.M. Waresul, Audit Pricing, Audit Concentration, and Big-4 Premium in Bangladesh (February 23, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1613454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1613454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Goyal Ahmed
A comparative study of pricing of audit services in emerging economies
International Journal of Auditing , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 103 - 116 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Anderson , D Zeghal
The pricing of audit services: Further evidence form the Canadian market
Accounting and Business Research , volume 24 , issue 95 , p. 195 - 208 Posted: 1994
Crossref
H E Arnett , P Danos
CPA Firm Viability -A Study of Major Environmental Factors Affecting Firms of Various Sizes and Characteristics Posted: 1979
V Beattie , S Fearnley
The Changing Structure of the Market for Audit Services in the UK: a Descriptive Study
British Accounting Review , volume 26 , p. 301 - 322 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,297
RANK
112,801
8 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies