Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Benefits of a Pre-Deal Purchase Price Allocation for Acquisition Decisions: An Exploratory Analysis

28 Pages Posted: 29 May 2010 Last revised: 10 Feb 2013

Henning Zülch

HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management

Dominic Detzen

VU University Amsterdam

Martin Wuensch

Handelshochschule Leipzig (HHL)

Torsten Wulf

University of Marburg

Philip Meissner

University of Marburg

Date Written: February 5, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the benefits of a pre-deal purchasing price allocation (pre-deal PPA), which acquirers have come to integrate into an acquisition process to examine the effects of a potential acquisition on the acquirer’s financial statements. We take a management perspective and investigate if the tool improves the comprehensiveness and quality of acquisition decisions. Based on an exploratory analysis using the results of semi-structured interviews with 24 accounting professionals from 19 Germany-based companies, we conduct a qualitative content analysis to identify the method’s benefits. Our results suggest that, subject to cost-benefit considerations, a pre-deal PPA increases decision quality and leads to more comprehensive acquisition decisions. Furthermore, we propose several best practice approaches to improve the implementation of a pre-deal PPA.

Keywords: Pre-Deal PPA, decision comprehensiveness, decision quality, M&A process

Suggested Citation:

Zülch, Henning and Detzen, Dominic and Wuensch, Martin and Wulf, Torsten and Meissner, Philip, The Benefits of a Pre-Deal Purchase Price Allocation for Acquisition Decisions: An Exploratory Analysis (February 5, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1616563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1616563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A C Amason
Distinguishing the effects of functional and dysfunctional conflict of strategic decision making: Resolving a paradox for top management teams
Academy of Management Journal , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 123 - 148 Posted: 1996
Crossref
K Atuahene-Gima , H Li
Strategic decision comprehensiveness and new product development outcomes in new technology ventures
Academy of Management Journal , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 583 - 597 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Capron , J C Shen
Acquisitions of private vs. public firms: Private information, target selection, and acquirer returns
Strategic Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 9 , p. 891 - 911 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,925
RANK
186,904
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Hofstede Never Studied Culture

By Rachel F. Baskerville

The Importance of Circulating and Presenting Manuscripts: Evidence from the Accounting Literature

By Lawrence D. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies