Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dynamics of the Informational Contents of Accounting Numbers

HANDBOOK ON BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, World Scientific, 2010

Posted: 1 Jun 2010

Akinloye Akindayomi

University of Massachusetts Dartmouth - Charlton College of Business

Date Written: April 27, 2010

Abstract

Accounting numbers are undoubtedly the most important inputs in the financial reporting system. The systematic reporting of accounting information determinates the value of such reporting system among the users of that information. In this study, I examine the value of accounting numbers in different areas of importance, relying on the premise that accounting numbers possess considerably rich informational content. Among others, I conclude that essential to the processing of accounting information is the disclosure of the environment and context, which are believed to have been substantially improved in the era of Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Keywords: Accounting numbers, earnings management, energy informativeness, disclosure environment

Suggested Citation:

Akindayomi, Akinloye, The Dynamics of the Informational Contents of Accounting Numbers (April 27, 2010). HANDBOOK ON BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS, World Scientific, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1616508
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
823
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies