Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An International Comparison of Social Interaction Attributes of Internal Auditors: An Analysis Using the FIRO-B

16 Pages Posted: 28 May 2010

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

Jeffrey R. Miller

Augusta State University

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

This study examines the social interaction attributes of international and U.S. internal auditing personnel. The study found that internal auditors from the U.S. have significantly different social interaction attributes than their Asian counterparts. Understanding differences between social interaction attributes is significant because such information may shed light on the type of individuals who are most likely to succeed in different environments. The study used Thompson and Schutz's (2000) FIRO-B instrument to obtain social interaction attributes from U.S. and Asian internal auditors. The tasks undertaken in the internal audit function require a set of social skills which may vary across work environments and economies. These findings have implications for firm hiring and assignment practices of individuals from different cultures to appropriate functions within the corporation, consideration of the role of employee participation in teams, and educators who advise students pursing post-education employment positions consistent with their social skill preferences.

Keywords: FIRO-B, intetrnal auditors, international comaprsions, psychometric

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and Miller, Jeffrey R., An International Comparison of Social Interaction Attributes of Internal Auditors: An Analysis Using the FIRO-B (May 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1616327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1616327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
M J Abdolmohammadi , P Burnaby
A review of prior common body of knowledge (CBOK) studies in internal auditing and an overview of the global CBOK
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 8 , p. 811 - 821 Posted: 2006
Crossref
V Awashti , C Chow , A Wu
Cross-cultural differences in the behavioral consequences of imposing performance evaluation and reward systems: An experimental investigation
International Journal of Accounting , volume 36 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Bayou , P Siegel , J Smith
Social skill differences among CPA firm personnel of different cultures: An exploratory study using the FIRO-B
International Journal of Business Research , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 15 - 25 Posted: 2006
R Bernardi
Fraud detection: The effect of client integrity and competence on auditor cognitive style
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , p. 68 - 84 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,992
RANK
304,992
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Do Strategic Reasoning and Brainstorming Help Auditors Change Their Standard Audit Procedures in Response to Fraud Risk?

By Vicky B. Hoffman and Mark F. Zimbelman

Auditors' Use of Brainstorming in the Consideration of Fraud: Evidence from the Field

By Joseph F. Brazel, Tina Carpenter, ...

The Influence of Documentation Specificity and Priming on Auditors' Fraud Risk Assessments and Evidence Evaluation Decisions

By Jacqueline S. Hammersley, E. Michael Bamber, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies