Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting and XBRL

12 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2010

Jon A. Baumunk

San Diego State University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: December 2, 2009

Abstract

According to van Marrewijk (2003), there is a small but essential distinction between corporate social responsibility and sustainability: corporate social responsibility relates to stakeholder dialogue and sustainability reporting, while the focus of corporate sustainability is on value creation and environmental management (as cited in Ciliberti et al., 2008, p. 89). This distinction implies that corporate sustainability is more internally focused and related to running the business, and that corporate social responsibility is more related to selling a business to external parties. However, if sustainability reporting is used for both external and internal purposes, the sustainability reporting process can be transformed to become more related to running the business (Leibs, 2007, December 1). This can occur if sustainability reports yield both external and internal reporting benefits. Effective internal sustainability reporting may be achieved, perhaps at a relatively low cost, via real-time reporting and data reuse made possible by extensible business reporting language (XBRL).

Currently, most corporations just concentrate on financial health as expressed through their profit and loss statements and balance sheets (“How accountants,” 2002, October 22). XBRL was originally developed to help process financial information (“Tag,” 2007, May) and was designed to properly associate business reporting data with externally focused financial reporting taxonomies (Garbellotto, 2006). However, XBRL may become even more significant for sustainability reporting than for financial reporting (Baue, 2007, April 16). Financial reporting is legally required for publicly traded companies, which means they do it universally (Baue, 2007, April 16). But sustainability reporting is mostly voluntary, which means XBRL may become a driving force in corporate sustainability reporting (Baue, 2007, April 16). XBRL’s use in sustainability reporting may help accelerate the combination of financial and sustainability data in a single annual report (Leibs, 2007, December 1). Therefore, more widespread use of sustainability reports may very well be linked to more widespread corporate adoption of XBRL for both financial and sustainability reporting purposes.

It is also likely that sustainability reporting will be more widespread if sustainability reports are used for both external and internal purposes, thereby making sustainability reporting more related to running the business and value creation. This would cause the emphasis of sustainability reporting to move away from corporate social responsibility and toward corporate sustainability.

Suggested Citation:

Baumunk, Jon A., Sustainability Reporting and XBRL (December 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1620567 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1620567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
B Baue
If you tag it, it will be used: Sustainability reporting in XBRL Posted: 2007-04-16
F Ciliberti , P Pontrandolfo , B Scozzi
Logistics social responsibility: Standard adoption and practices in Italian companies
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 113 , issue 1 , p. 88 - 106 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G Garbellotto
From spreadsheet trash talking to data recycling nirvana. Strategic Finance , volume 88 , p. 53 - 56 Posted: 2006
Global Reporting Initiative. (n.d.). Financial markets & XBRL. Retrieved from
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
859
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,261
RANK
64,657
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Evidence on Ethical Mutual Fund Performance and Investment Style

By Rogér Otten, Rob Bauer, ...

International Evidence on Ethical Mutual Fund Performance and Investment Style

By Rob Bauer, Kees C. G. Koedijk, ...

The Price of Sin: The Effects of Social Norms on Markets

By Marcin T. Kacperczyk and Harrison G. Hong

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies