Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Action Task Force and Global Administrative Law

Journal of the Professional Lawyer, Forthcoming

Albany Law School Research Paper No. 10-10

20 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2010 Last revised: 23 Jul 2010

James Thuo Gathii

Loyola University Chicago School of Law

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This paper focuses on the lawmaking power of the Financial Accounting Task Force, (“FATF”) as an international organization and how its work is now being consolidated by being incorporated within the G20's framework for global financial reform. FATF reform therefore constitutes an end run around governments and professional societies to implement legal reforms to combat money laundering and terrorism.

FATF reforms to combat money laundering and terrorism have raised high level discussions within leading law societies, like the American Bar Association in the U.S. that is providing a push back to the FATF 40 9, as well as the October 2008 Lawyer Guidance. By contrast, such discussions around FATF money laundering and terrorism financing laws are conspicuously absent in developing countries, where FATF reforms are being promoted through well-funded aid programs and training of government officials, but not to those in the private sector, including those in the real estate industry, the legal profession and accountants. This paper contrasts recent legislation in Kenya implementing the FATF’s anti-money laundering standards with the continuing discussion within the American Bar Association and the fact that no State in the European Union has even considered similar obligations on lawyers, the real estate industry or other gatekeepers subject to the FATF’s anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing standards.

Keywords: FATF, Kenya, Financial Accounting Task Force

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Gathii, James Thuo, The Financial Action Task Force and Global Administrative Law (2010). Journal of the Professional Lawyer, Forthcoming, Albany Law School Research Paper No. 10-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1621877
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
ill-gotten gains-such as through Trade Based Money Laundering, physical movement of cash across national boundaries as well as purchases of real estate (e.g., the purchases of real estate with piracy ransom in Kenya that has led to a huge rise in real estate values there) and so on. The work of the FATF
such as those on mutual legal assistance and the adoption of common standards, whether rule-or risk-based are quickly eroding the traditional problems of conflicts of law and jurisdictions. That is a very interesting development given that conflicts in other areas reflect lack of uniform standards and often the projection of the norms of western states on non-western states
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,817
RANK
116,469
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies