Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is 'Essentially Equivalent to a Dividend'?: Why Changes in the Code and Inconsistent Application of § 302(b)(1) Justify Reform of an Historically Uncertain Tax Law

Posted: 12 Jun 2010

Brandon N. Mourges

University of Baltimore

Date Written: June 1, 2010

Abstract

Section 302(b)(1), commonly known as the “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” test, is an unnecessary vestige in the area of redemption taxation. Due to changes in the law since its inception and the inconsistent application of § 302(b)(1), reform should be attempted in this area to further the important tax policies of administrability, efficiency, and equity.

Part II outlines the early history of redemption taxation and IRC § 302(b)’s predecessors, with emphasis on legislative considerations leading to its enactment of § 115(g) and interpretations of that section. Part III examines § 302(b) as enacted in 1954 and provides explanation of the changes and application of other relevant tax provisions. Part IV focuses on legal interpretations of § 302(b)(1)’s “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” test since 1954. Part V outlines key business and tax changes since 1954 and analyzes their impact on the purpose of § 302(b)(1). Part VI calls for reform of § 302(b)(1) and suggests viable alternative ways to accomplish tax policy goals.

Keywords: dividend, 302(b)(1), "essentially equivalent", "qualified dividend income", davis

Suggested Citation:

Mourges, Brandon N., What is 'Essentially Equivalent to a Dividend'?: Why Changes in the Code and Inconsistent Application of § 302(b)(1) Justify Reform of an Historically Uncertain Tax Law (June 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1622850
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies