Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Web-Based Corporate Reporting Practices in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 7-19, July 2010

22 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2010 Last revised: 12 Oct 2012

Mahesh Chand Garg

G. J. University of Science and Technology

Divya Verma Gakhar

Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University

Date Written: June 15, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the use of Internet for corporate reporting in India. The study identifies the extent of Web-based financial and non-financial disclosures and its relationship with various company characteristics, which include size, profits, age, nature of industry, affiliation to business house, liquidity, ownership spread and leverage of Indian corporates. Internet Disclosure Index (IDI) is calculated to measure the type and extent of Web disclosure, using a sample of 200 companies. The study results indicate that industry sector, size of the company, and association with business house positively affect the extent of information disclosure on websites.

Suggested Citation:

Garg, Mahesh Chand and Gakhar, Divya Verma, Web-Based Corporate Reporting Practices in India (June 15, 2010). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 7-19, July 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1625146
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
G L Gray , R Debreceny
Corporate Reporting on the Internet: Opportunities and Challenges" Paper presented at the seventh Asian-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues Posted: 1997
Crossref
G Flynn , C Gowthrope
Volunteering Financial Data on the World Wide Web: A Study of Financial Reporting from a Stakeholder Perspective Posted: 1997
A Lymer
The Use of the Internet in Corporate Reporting: A Survey and Commentary on the Use of the WWW in Corporate Reporting in the UK Posted: 1997
A Lymer , Tallberg A
Corporate reporting and the Internet -a survey and commentary on the use of the WWW in corporate reporting in the UK and Finland Posted: 1997-04-23
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
834
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,631
RANK
67,241
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Reporting on the Internet by Irish Companies

By Niamh M. Brennan and Denis Hourigan

Economic Consequences of Internet Financial Reporting

By Alfred Wagenhofer

Use of the Internet by Irish Companies for Investor Relations Purposes

By Niamh M. Brennan and Sorka Kelly

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies