Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Asset Reclassifications and Bank Recapitalization during the Financial Crisis

61 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2010 Last revised: 10 Aug 2021

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Ulf Brüggemann

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 31, 2021

Abstract

Regulators frequently relax accounting rules during a financial crisis as a means of regulatory forbearance. The new accounting options provide banks with an opportunity for an accrual-based increase in their regulatory capital. The use of such an accounting option helps reduce the costs of government interventions such as bailouts and avoid the dilution of existing shareholders’ ownership rights. We examine the introduction of the reclassification option for financial assets during the 2008 financial crisis and study the position of accrual-based options in the pecking order of banks’ recapitalization measures. The findings suggest that the accruals-based increase in regulatory capital is temporary and does not provide permanent relief. Consistent with the long-term costs of accrual-based measures, investors perceive the accounting choice as a negative signal. If banks do not complement their use of the accounting option by other corrective actions that result in a real capital increase and a liquidity injection, they continue to suffer from low capitalization and financial difficulties in the following years. Ultimately, government interventions in accounting regulation are unlikely to offer a sustainable solution to capital shortfalls in the banking sector if they are not supported by the concurrent enforcement of real corrective actions.

Keywords: Bank Regulation, Fair Value Accounting, Financial Crisis, Recapitalization, Regulatory Capital

JEL Classification: G14, G21, G28, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Brüggemann, Ulf and Daske, Holger, Asset Reclassifications and Bank Recapitalization during the Financial Crisis (July 31, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1628843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1628843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
V V Acharya , L Borchert , M Jager , S Steffen
Kicking the can down the road: government interventions in the European banking sector. The Review of Financial Studies Posted: 2021
Crossref
European Central , Bank
The Great Financial Crisis. Lessons for Financial Stability and Monetary Policy Posted: 2010
R Ewert , A Wagenhofer
Earnings Management, Conservatism, and Earnings Quality
Foundations and Trends in Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 65 - 186 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ewert , A Wagenhofer
Economic Effects of Tightening Accounting Standards to Restrict Earnings Management
The Accounting Review , volume 80 , issue 4 , p. 1101 - 1124 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,067
RANK
8,512
27 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies