Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Financial Inclusion: The Catalytic Role of Self Help Groups

The Management Accountant, May 2009

5 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2010

A. P. Pati

North Eastern Hill University

Date Written: May 2009

Abstract

A large section of rural population does not have any access to formal credit. The exclusion of such a vast segment of the population warranted a new form of intermediary and in response to this self help groups emerged in India. Whether SHGs could be an effective intermediary in bringing more financial inclusion is studied in this article. It is observed that financial inclusion through SHG efforts has a tremendous potential, but there is the need of increasing effort by NGOs, state governments and MFIs and banks. To enhance the ambit of inclusion through the SHG format other products like micro insurance and money transfer services also need to be introduced along with lone credit facility.

Keywords: Financial Inclusion, Financial Exclusion

Suggested Citation:

Pati, Ambika Prasad, Enhancing Financial Inclusion: The Catalytic Role of Self Help Groups (May 2009). The Management Accountant, May 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1630253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
698
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
84,935
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Socially Responsible Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies