Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Accountants Determine How Much Tax We Pay? International Accounting Standards vs. Taxable Income and Capital Gains

New Zealand Journal of Tax Law and Policy, Vol. 14, pp. 316-329, September 2008

14 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2010

Kevin Holmes

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting & Commercial Law

Date Written: September 1, 2008

Abstract

This article puts in layman's terms the arguments for closer alignment of taxable income and the accounting measure of profit. It canvasses the development of the legal notion of income for New Zealand taxation purposes and contrasts that with the economics and accounting interpretations. Advocating a broader application of the accounting concept of income, the paper asks what is so special about New Zealand not taxing capital gains. The author concedes that, from a tax policy perspective, a full alignment of the accounting and tax measures of income is not necessarily desirable. Nevertheless, the paper concludes that there is considerable scope for greater coherence in the determination of taxable income both within income tax law itself and between tax law and accounting.

Keywords: income, taxable income, international accounting standards, capital gains, New Zealand, economics concept of income, accounting concept of income, legal concept of income, income pyramid, trust law, alignment, coherence

JEL Classification: H20, H24

Suggested Citation:

Holmes, Kevin, Should Accountants Determine How Much Tax We Pay? International Accounting Standards vs. Taxable Income and Capital Gains (September 1, 2008). New Zealand Journal of Tax Law and Policy, Vol. 14, pp. 316-329, September 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1630638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,512
RANK
330,157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies