Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Fraud: When is Tax Avoidance a Criminal Offence?

TAXATION ISSUES: EXISTING AND EMERGING, pp. 79-100, Maples and Sawyer, eds., The Centre for Corporate and Commercial Law

20 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2010 Last revised: 27 Jan 2012

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 30, 2010

Abstract

This article looks at the complex situation arising when there is a deliberate arrangement to avoid income tax and the consequences which can arise where the matter strays into the criminal jurisdiction. Knowing when an arrangement is an arrangement to avoid tax is no easy matter. The New Zealand courts have taken the view that taxpayers with arrangements close to the line of tax avoidance will have to live with uncertainty. Can taxpayers and their advisers involved in tax avoidance schemes face even more dire consequences than those arising through the disallowance of their taxation advantage and imposition of shortfall civil penalties? This article looks at when tax avoidance schemes not only cross the line of acceptable tax planning and become void for tax purposes, but go further and cross the line of legality.

In such situations consequences may arise for advisors as well as taxpayers.

Keywords: tax evasion, pecuniary advantage, prosecution for tax offences, tax fraud, tax offences

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Tax Fraud: When is Tax Avoidance a Criminal Offence? (June 30, 2010). TAXATION ISSUES: EXISTING AND EMERGING, pp. 79-100, Maples and Sawyer, eds., The Centre for Corporate and Commercial Law, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1633149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
R V Gilchrist
, volume 22 Posted: 2006
Section 143B (1)(b) and (f) of the Tax Administration Act Posted: 1994
R V Gilchrist
, volume 22 Posted: 2006
R V Firth
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
642
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,163
RANK
24,969
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies