Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of ABC and the Improvement of Performance: The Case of the Central Bank of Morocco

Posted: 15 Jul 2010 Last revised: 4 Oct 2010

Pierre-Laurent Bescos

EDHEC Business School

Karim Charaf

Burgundy School of Business

Date Written: July 14, 2010

Abstract

The adoption of Activity-Based Costing (ABC) is motivated by the search for greater efficiency in the face of competitive pressures resulting from globalization, and particularly the introduction of high-quality and low-priced Asian-made products and services into the Moroccan markets. The search for greater efficiency through the application of ABC is still to be determined. The purpose of this paper is to examine the relations between ABC and performance, particularly on non financial performance. With this objective a field study was undertaken between 2007 and 2009 at the Central Bank of Morocco (Bank Al-Maghrib) to highlight the direct effects of ABC implementation on performance.

Keywords: Activity-Based Costing, ABC, Performance, Morocco, Management Accounting

JEL Classification: M40, L31, M46

Suggested Citation:

Bescos, Pierre-Laurent and Charaf, Karim, The Adoption of ABC and the Improvement of Performance: The Case of the Central Bank of Morocco (July 14, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1640113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1640113
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies