Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
NOL Poison Pills: Selectica v. Versata

Tax Notes, June 23, 2010

Posted: 21 Jul 2010 Last revised: 25 Jul 2010

Merle Erickson

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Shane Heitzman

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business

Date Written: June 23, 2010

Abstract

In late 2008 Selectica’s net operating loss poison pill was triggered by Trilogy/Versata. Litigation ensued in Delaware Court of Chancery over the propriety of the poison pill, which Selectica instituted to protect its $167 million of NOLs from the limitations of Internal Revene Code (I.R.C.) Section 382. Ultimately, the court ruled that Selectica’s board acted reasonably in adopting an NOL poison pill to protect its NOLs. Many other firms have instituted NOL poison pills in the last several years. We discuss NOL poison pills and the Selectica case in this article. We also discuss the treatment of NOLs as a corporate asset, I.R.C. Section 382-related threats to that asset’s value, and the steps firms have taken to protect their NOL assets, including NOL poison pills (also known as Section 382 rights plans). We also provide data regarding other firms that have announced NOL pills in recent years. In doing so, we discuss the valuation of NOLs, GAAP accounting for NOLs, and how the Delaware Court of Chancery considered those issues in reaching its conclusions.

Keywords: Poison Pill, Net Operating Loss, Mergers and Acquisitions, Rights Plan

JEL Classification: K22, G34, M41, G14, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Erickson, Merle and Heitzman, Shane, NOL Poison Pills: Selectica v. Versata (June 23, 2010). Tax Notes, June 23, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1645979
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,620
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies