Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intangible Assets Valuation by License Market and Stock Market: Cross-Industry Analysis Based on Royalty Rate and Tobin’s Q

les Nouvelles, June 2011

Posted: 23 Jul 2010 Last revised: 10 Jun 2011

Jack Lu

Intellectual Property Market Advisory Partners(IPMAP), LLC

Date Written: July 5, 2010

Abstract

There has been no previous research on the link between license market and stock market. Are the two markets integrated or coupled such that the valuation of the same portfolio of intangible assets is consistent cross market? This study tries to fill the research gap. Based on the data of royalty rate and Tobin’s Q across 14 industries, the analysis demonstrates that the two markets are partially integrated, and that the valuations of intangible assets by the two markets are highly related, after a dummy variable is introduced to control two outlying sectors.

This paper moves to test whether the partial integration between the two markets is caused by some random factors, or actually reflects more fundamental differences between the pricing behaviors of the markets. Two sets of regression analysis are conducted to associate royalty rate and Tobin’s Q with three fundamental indicators including R&D intensity, the relative size of intangible assets book value, and price markup. Several important conclusions are reached from the analysis. First and foremost, the stock of intangible assets carried on book is found to contribute significantly to royalty rate pricing in license market, but essentially irrelevant in stock market valuation. Most likely, stock market actually discounts the book value of intangible assets.

Second, stock market values R&D intensity or the flow of the R&D efforts significantly, and consistently across all industries studied. By contrast, license market positively prices R&D intensity only when the book value of intangible assets is included in the analysis. As a result, the book value of recognized intangible assets becomes the most important discriminator that differentiates the pricing behaviors of the two markets. This manifests that while both license market and stock market are forward-looking, the pricing in license market is backward-looking and path-dependent as well, i.e., it does impound the information embedded in the accumulated stock of intangible assets carried on book. Finally, three valuation models for license market are developed, and the one with the highest explanatory power indicates that royalty pricing is mostly determined by the book value of intangible assets and price markup.

Keywords: Intangible assets, valuation, license market, stock market, pricing behaviors, valuation models, royalty rate, Tobin’s Q, R&D intensity, book value of intangible assets, price markup, regression analysis

JEL Classification: O31, O32, O34, D45, L11, G19

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Jack, Intangible Assets Valuation by License Market and Stock Market: Cross-Industry Analysis Based on Royalty Rate and Tobin’s Q (July 5, 2010). les Nouvelles, June 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1646641
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies