Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Since Enron

9 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2010

Maria S. Cuebas

Texas Woman's University

Date Written: April 25, 2010

Abstract

In recent years we have been inundated with news of corporations under investigation because of questionable accounting practices. In the worst case scenarios, companies such as Enron have gone bankrupt and ceased to exist because of lack of oversight and controls. Greedy high-level executives have lived a lavish life-style at the expense of millions of shareholders. Thousands of employees have lost their life savings and livelihood. This type of creative accounting practices opened the door for legislation in the form of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which was signed into law on July 30, 2002. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), NASDAQ, and the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) have followed suit with regulatory proposals of their own that go above and beyond the requirements of the Act. Today audit committees are playing an increasingly key role in the oversight and governance of business institutions all over the world.

Keywords: Enron, SOX, American Stock Exchange, Sarbanes Oxley, PCAOB

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cuebas, Maria S., Accounting Since Enron (April 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1650637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1650637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
W Baker , D Brodskey , R Grochowsky
Executive Action No. 63. Trends in Corporate Governance…The New Role of Audit Committees Posted: 2003
Accounting Reform after Enron: Issues in the 108
CRS Report for Congress Posted: 2003
Congress
Posted: 2010-04-25
J Dickey , S Buchholz
Glazer Legal Works Conference on SEC Disclosure, Accounting and Enforcement Posted: 2002-04-25
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,516
RANK
244,564
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies