Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Foreign Currency Translation in Consolidated Financial Statements: Some Critical Issues

Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association - Venezia, 1994

26 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2010 Last revised: 3 Aug 2010

Paolo Andrei

University of Parma (Italy) - Department of Economics

Date Written: 1994

Abstract

This study aims at analysing whether, and to what extent, different translation methods can be effective in order to draw up consolidated financial statements suitable to give a clear picture of the overall management process characterizing the parent company and its subsidiaries as a single unit. In view of this, the analysis is carried out on the basis of the “entity theory of the group” concept (Moonitz, 1942; 1951), considering the group as a single economic entity, a single business formed by different economic units, which are independent from a legal point of view, but are controlled and managed by a single economic agent. In this context, the “temporal method” appears to be the ideal approach.

Keywords: Foreign Currency Translation, Consolidated Financial Statements

Suggested Citation:

Andrei, Paolo, Foreign Currency Translation in Consolidated Financial Statements: Some Critical Issues (1994). Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association - Venezia, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1650223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
L Azzini
I gruppi aziendali. Milano: Giuffrè Posted: 1975
K R Bindon
Inventories and foreign currency translation requirements Posted: 1983
W Busse Von Colbe
Foreign currency translation
International group accounting Posted: 1988
F D S Choi , G G Mueller
International accounting Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,838
RANK
40,274
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies