Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partnership Book-Ups

Tax Notes, Vol. 127, No. 435, 2010

Emory Public Law Research Paper No. 10-118

Emory Law and Economics Research Paper No. 10-77

19 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2010

Howard E Abrams

Harvard Law School

Date Written: April 26, 2010

Abstract

Section 704(c)(1)(A) governs the taxation of unrealized appreciation and loss in property contributed to a partnership. The principles underlying §704(c)(1)(A) also apply to property held by a partnership when additional property is contributed to the venture or existing property is distributed in exchange for a partnership interest. In Notice 2009-70, the Service solicited comments on the proper application of §704(c)(1)(A) to contributed property and on the application of §704(c)(1)(A) principles in appropriate circumstances to existing property of a partnership.

Part I responds to Notice 2009-70 with three technical changes to the application of §704(c) principles, each of which will better conform the application of §704(c) principles to economic reality. The first two technical proposals limit the ability of a partnership to exploit §704(c) principles when doing so would be inconsistent with the economic arrangement among the partners or would emasculate the alternate test for economic effect under §704(b). The third technical proposal expands the use of §704(c) principles when their use would allow the books of a partnership to more closely reflect the economics underlying the partners' economic positions.

Part II proposes three broad changes to the application of §704(c) principles to partnership dispositions and distributions. In many cases, the existing rules allow the partial sale of a partnership interest or a partnership distribution to shift the recognition of income among partners in ways that are easily manipulated. The proposals offered in part II will in most situations eliminate the shifting of income resulting from these transactions and thereby reduce the opportunity to exploit partnership dispositions and distributions in tax minimizing ways.

Suggested Citation:

Abrams, Howard E., Partnership Book-Ups (April 26, 2010). Tax Notes, Vol. 127, No. 435, 2010, Emory Public Law Research Paper No. 10-118, Emory Law and Economics Research Paper No. 10-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1652569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
that stricture surely would not be violated by regulations that authorize an exchange of built-in gain for other gain only when necessary to ensure that tax allocations correspond with book allocations if appreciated property is distributed by a partnership. In conclusion, book gain equal to the built-in tax gain in distributed property should be allocated to the distributee partner, and if this rearranges a prior allocation of book gain
Of course, if contributed property is distributed within seven years of contribution, application of section 704(c)(1)(B) may eliminate the precontribution gain that otherwise would be taxed to the distributee, see §704(c)(1)(B)(iii), eliminating the need for a subsequent offset
H R Rep
Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,964
RANK
159,412
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies