Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Risk and IFRS: The Case of Credit Default Swaps

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2010 Last revised: 18 Feb 2014

Gauri Bhat

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Jeffrey L. Callen

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: February 16, 2014

Abstract

This study compares the pricing of credit risk information conveyed by accounting numbers under IFRS relative to local GAAP. We measure the price of credit risk by CDS spreads and focus on three fundamental accounting metrics that inform about credit risk: earnings, leverage and book value equity. Using a difference in differences methodology, we find that while earnings, book value and, to a lesser extent, leverage are significant determinants of credit risk pricing both prior to and after IFRS adoption, the adoption of IFRS did not change the credit risk informativeness of these accounting variables as reflected in CDS spreads. This conclusion is robust to controlling for institutional differences among countries as well as a battery of sensitivity analyses.

Keywords: Credit Default Swaps, Credit Risk, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bhat, Gauri and Callen, Jeffrey L. and Segal, Dan, Credit Risk and IFRS: The Case of Credit Default Swaps (February 16, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1653887 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1653887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Alford , J Jones , R Leftwich , M Zmijewski
The relative informativeness of accounting disclosures in different countries
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 183 - 229 Posted: 1993
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International gaap differences: The impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
744
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,811
RANK
78,308
6 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies