Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are US Academics and Professionals Ready for IFRS?

24 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2010

Murad Moqbel

Our Lady of the Lake University

Aziz Bakay

Gediz University

Date Written: August 19, 2010

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have been adopted by several countries around the world as a common accounting and financial language. However, the US is yet to do so. In this study, in our turn, we examine whether the US academics (accounting and auditing students and professors) as well as practitioners (auditors, accountants, CPAs, and financial analysts) are ready to embrace IFRS as a common accounting and financial reporting language. We discuss the extent to which they are familiar and ready for IFRS as well as their perception about the benefits and challenges in adopting IFRS. We further touch on IFRS Benefits and Challenges, IFRS education, training, and information technology Role.

Keywords: IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting, GAAP, Difference between GAAP and IFRS, pros and cons of IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Moqbel, Murad and Bakay, Aziz, Are US Academics and Professionals Ready for IFRS? (August 19, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1662162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1662162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Anderson
The globalization GAAP
Management Accounting , p. 52 - 54 Posted: 1993-08
Kennard S Brackney , Philip R Witmer
The European Union's Role in International Standards Setting
The CPA Journal , volume 75 , p. 18 - 27 Posted: 2005-11
Lamoreaux Defelice
The SEC's IFRS Work Plan
Journal of Accountancy. Accessed Posted: 2010
Tohmatsu Deloitte Touché
IFRS e-learning Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
694
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,760
RANK
85,609
2 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies