Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualitative Approach to Build the Concept of Social Responsibility Disclosures Based on Shari’ah Enterprise Theory

22 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2010

Made Sudarma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Iwan Triyuwono

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Unti Ludigdo

University of Brawijaya

Inten Meutia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 18, 2010

Abstract

This research aims to develop the concept and characteristics of social responsibility disclosure and items for the social responsibility disclosure of Islamic banks. This research was conducted based on the critical paradigm by using Habermas's Theory of Communication Action in understanding social reality. Habermas's Communication Theory of Action that is used extended with spirituality. This study also use Shari'ah Enterprise Theory to analyze and to produce the concept of social responsibility disclosure for Islamic banks.

This research uses a qualitative approach in gathering and analyzing data. Analysis conducted on the annual reports of three Islamic banks in Indonesia, Bank Mega Syariah, Bank Syariah Mandiri and Bank Muamalat Indonesia. In addition the analysis was also conducted based on the results of interviews with stakeholders, including direct and indirect stakeholders.

As a result of the analysis of the interests of stakeholders, the study found spiritual values. These values are sharing, rahmatan lil alamin and maslaha. These values are used as a guide in developing items of social responsibility disclosure. Further a concept of social responsibility disclosure is derived based on the Shari'ah Enterprise Theory. This research ultimately propose a form of social responsibility disclosure for Islamic banks that show efforts to meet the vertical accountability to God, and horizontal accountability to the people and the environment, considering the material and spiritual needs of stakeholders and disclose information both qualitatively and quantitatively.

Keywords: Social Responsibility Disclosure, Shari'ah Enterprise Theory, Islamic Banking, Accountability, Theory of Communication Action

Suggested Citation:

Sudarma, Made and Triyuwono, Iwan and Ludigdo, Unti and Meutia, Inten, Qualitative Approach to Build the Concept of Social Responsibility Disclosures Based on Shari’ah Enterprise Theory (March 18, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1662860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1662860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
M Adnan , Akhyar
Akuntansi Shari'ah, Arah, Prospek dan Tantangannya Posted: 2002
Rajesh K Dan Tarik Aggarwal , Yousef
Islamic Banks and Investment Financing
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 32 , p. 93 - 120 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ary Agustian , Ginanjar
Emotional Spiritual Quotient: Rahasia Sukses Membangun Kecerdasan Emosi dan Spiritual. Penerbit Arga Posted: 2001
A Al-Mograbi
The Social Responsibility of Islamic Banks. Cairo. International Institute of Islamic Thought Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
898
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,221
RANK
60,757
2 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

What Firm-Specific News Releases Drive Economically Significant Stock Returns and Trading Volumes?

By Paul Ryan and Richard Taffler

On the Willingness of UK Companies to Issue Profit Warnings: Regulatory, Earnings Surprise Permanence, and Agency Cost Effects

By Guenther Helbok and Martin Walker

The Information in UK Company Profit Warnings

By Andrew Clare

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies