Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consistent Valuation of Project Finance and LBO's Using the Flows-to-Equity Method

33 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2010 Last revised: 13 Mar 2017

Ian A. Cooper

Indian Institute of Finance (IIF)

Kjell G. Nyborg

University of Zurich - Department of Banking and Finance; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); Swiss Finance Institute

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 2017

Abstract

The flows-to-equity method is often used to value highly leveraged projects, or transactions, where debt typically amortises over time according to a fixed schedule. This requires a formula that links the changing leverage over time with a time-varying equity discount rate. We show that the extant formulas in the literature and in textbooks yield incorrect discount rates and valuations because they are inconsistent with fixed debt plans. They result in values that are at odds with the Miller and Modigliani result that levered value equals unlevered value plus financing side effects (adjusted present value). The error from using the wrong formula can be large at the currently low levels of interest rates. We derive an equity discount rate formula that captures the effects of a fixed debt plan, potentially expensive debt, and costs of financial distress that, when applied in the flows-to-equity method, yield values that are consistent with adjusted present value. In short, our formula allows for the correct implementation of the flows-to-equity method under fixed debt plans. In the formula, the cost of debt is the promised yield rather than the expected rate of return of debt.

Keywords: Valuation, flows-to-equity, equity cash flow, cost of equity, project finance, LBO

JEL Classification: G12, G24, G31, G32, G33, G34

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Ian Anthony and Nyborg, Kjell G., Consistent Valuation of Project Finance and LBO's Using the Flows-to-Equity Method (March 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1664605 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1664605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Heitor Almeida , Thomas Philippon
The risk-adjusted cost of financial distress
Journal of Finance , volume 62 , p. 2557 - 2586 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Enrique R Arzac
Valuation of Highly Leveraged Firms
Financial Analysts Journal , p. 42 - 50 Posted: 1996-07
Crossref
Carliss Baldwin
Technical Note on LBO Valuation (A) , p. 9 - 902 Posted: 2001
Carliss Baldwin
Technical Note on LBO Valuation (B) , p. 9 - 902 Posted: 2001
Load more
1 Citations
Alexander D.F. Lahmann , Maximilian Schreiter , Bernhard Schwetzler
Modeling Dynamic Redemption and Default Risk for LBO Evaluation: A Boundary Crossing Approach
Asian Finance Association (AsianFA) 2015 Conference Paper · 58 Pages · Posted: 15 Feb 2015 · Last revised: 15 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 310
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
829
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,763
RANK
28,594
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Tax Shields is Not Equal to the Present Value of Tax Shields

By Pablo Fernandez

Reply to 'the Value of Tax Shields is Equal to the Present Value of Tax Shields'

By Pablo Fernandez

The Value of Tax Shields is Not Equal to the Present Value of Tax Shields: A Correction

By Pablo Fernandez

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies