Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Occupational Safety and Health Scorecard – A Business Case Example for Strategic Management

Scandinavian Journal of Work, Environment & Health, Vol. 35, No. 6, pp. 403-413, November 2009

Posted: 26 Aug 2010

Birgit Koeper

Government of the Federal Republic of Germany - Bundesanstalt für Arbeitsschutz und Arbeitsmedizin

Klaus Moeller

University of St. Gallen

Gerard Zwetsloot

TNO Quality of Life - Work and Employment

Date Written: November 1, 2009

Abstract

HR and health issues are supposed to be crucial in terms of enterprises´ future performance and competitiveness. However, systematic, continuous and strategically aligned OSH management is scarcely applied in enterprises. One major reason for this might be the lack of generally accepted and standardised OSH controlling methods.

The objective of this article is to propose an eligible business case bridging OSH-related and performance issues of an organisation. The business case is based on the well known and accepted Balanced Scorecard (BSC) approach which was adapted to a specific OSH-BSC. It was conceptualised and implemented in the course of a comprehensive case study at a German Automobile manufacturer. The main result - based on multivariate regression analysis - was that the BSC approach is adequate as a means to control OSH issues in terms of strategic health management. However the data quality especially with respect to performance data has to be improved in order to get more detailed information as for the mechanisms, which bridge health and performance.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Business Case, Business Performance, Case Study, Cause and Effect Chain, Constructive Research Approach, Empirical Study, Human Resource Management, Management Control, Occupational Safety and Health, Occupational Safety and Health Scorecard, Organizational Performance

JEL Classification: M00, M12, M40, M54, J28

Suggested Citation:

Koeper, Birgit and Moeller, Klaus and Zwetsloot, Gerard, The Occupational Safety and Health Scorecard – A Business Case Example for Strategic Management (November 1, 2009). Scandinavian Journal of Work, Environment & Health, Vol. 35, No. 6, pp. 403-413, November 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1664448
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,323
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies