Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Note: Tax Accrual Work Papers & Textron: Is Litigation Strategy No Longer Protected?

Northwestern University Law Review, Vol. 105, 2011

36 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2010 Last revised: 15 Oct 2010

Lindsey L. Sullivan

Northwestern University School of Law

Date Written: August 25, 2010

Abstract

This Note argues that the Textron court allowed policy considerations to affect the outcome without directly analyzing the competing objectives of enforcement and privilege. The work product doctrine, like all privileges, attempts to strike a balance between enforcement and privacy, and the Textron decision was guided by the court’s desire to balance effective tax law enforcement by the IRS against the need for privacy to conduct detailed legal analysis of tax filings by corporate entities. Regardless of which objective one finds more important, the majority properly brought the policy discussion into the opinion. The majority, failed, however, to explicitly balance these two objectives and set out a framework for lower courts to follow.

Part I takes a detailed look at tax accrual work papers and explains the difficulty in applying the work product doctrine to these documents. Part II discusses the history, background, and theoretical underpinning of the work product doctrine, highlighting the circuit split related to the phrase “in anticipation of litigation.” Part III discusses the Textron holding in depth and, using the language and theories from the preceding sections, explains the Textron court’s error. Finally, Part IV argues that, while the doctrine was applied incorrectly, the eventual outcome in Textron may have been correct in light of the policy considerations and practical concerns underlying the doctrine.

The Note concludes by arguing that, despite the alarm it has raised, Textron did not drastically change the work product doctrine. Courts and litigants will be able to limit Textron’s impact by recognizing that the work product doctrine requires an explicit balancing between enforcement and privacy.

Keywords: Textron, work product doctrine, tax accrual work papers

Suggested Citation:

Sullivan, Lindsey L., Note: Tax Accrual Work Papers & Textron: Is Litigation Strategy No Longer Protected? (August 25, 2010). Northwestern University Law Review, Vol. 105, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1665983 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1665983
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
‖); But See Thomas Wilson
The Work Product Doctrine: Why have an Ordinary Course of Business Exception?
Colum. Bus. L. Rev , volume 587 Posted: 1988
Supra Epstein , Note
Crossref
See Upjohn Co
PIN ( privilege applied when investigation started) , volume 383
E G See
Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
672,864
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: The Legal Profession eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies