Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Struggling for the New Role for Business Controller

University of Tampere Department of Economics and Accounting Working Paper No. 1

30 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2010

Timo Hyvonen

Tampere University; Tampere University - School of Business Administration

Janne Järvinen

University of Oulu

Jukka Pellinen

University of Jyväskylä

Date Written: August 27, 2008

Abstract

The recent discussion on changes in the controller's role has mainly focused on the national and organizational level culture aspects of that professional role. While earlier studies have demonstrated how the role changes have been stimulated by corporate culture, IT systems, new accounting technologies and interprofessional competition, we contend that such changes cannot be achieved without active individuals in organizations. Our study is informed by the concept of institutional entrepreneurship, concentrating on changes in institutions, such as professional roles, which are achieved by an active agency. Thus we concentrate on the individual level by tracing how the role of a single controller was changed from that of 'bean counter' towards that of business partner. We illustrate how new cost accounting techniques and modern ICT (ERP) serve as critical momentum for this role change, and how the aspiring controller must creatively combine multiple competencies in order to change the institutionalized role. Organizational roles and other social institutions defending accounting practices may change and are changed only as a result of active agencies. Therefore, in order to understand the conditions for these changes, we need to pay more attention to what active individuals are doing when bringing about these changes. More attention should paid to the political and discursive action on accountants.

Keywords: Management Accounting Change, Institutional Entrepreneurship, Accounting Profession, ERP, ABC, Organizational Culture

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Hyvonen, Timo and Järvinen, Janne and Pellinen, Jukka, Struggling for the New Role for Business Controller (August 27, 2008). University of Tampere Department of Economics and Accounting Working Paper No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1666797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1666797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Occupational identity of management accountants in Britain and Germany
European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 477 - 498 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivism, romantics, and localists: a reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Alvesson , H Willmott
Identity regulations as organizational control: producing the appropriate individual
Journal of Management Studies , volume 39 , p. 614 - 644 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Armstrong
Changing management control strategies: The role of competition between accountancy and other organizational professions
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 148 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
569
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,471
RANK
110,496
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Social Polarization, Political Institutions, and Country Creditworthiness

By Philip Keefer and Stephen Knack

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies