Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing and Drafting VAT Laws for Africa

VAT IN AFRICA, pp. 9-28, R. Krever, ed., Pretoria University Law Press, 2008

20 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2010

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

This paper looks at the sources for VAT design in Africa. It begins with a brief comparison of the two alternative designs used for taxes on final consumption, the retail sales tax and the value added tax. While the VAT has emerged as the consumption tax of choice outside North America, both taxes yield the same final outcome in theory and in the course of designing a VAT, the designers may strive for the same final tax treatment as would occur under a model retail sales tax. The paper next describes how two models for VAT design have emerged – the ‘traditional VAT’ and the ‘modern VAT’ – and how both are used in Africa. It explains the similarities and key differences between the two models. The paper then briefly evaluates common responses to the apparent regressivity of the VAT, including the use of differential rates or exemptions. The following section of the paper reviews the process of putting VAT design into legislation. Finally, the sixth section of the paper briefly reviews six potential problem areas in the VAT.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard, Designing and Drafting VAT Laws for Africa (January 1, 2008). VAT IN AFRICA, pp. 9-28, R. Krever, ed., Pretoria University Law Press, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1666190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,733
RANK
251,810
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies