Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Free Enterprise Cure Urban Ills? Lost Opportunities for Business Development in Urban, Low-Income Communities Through the New Markets Tax Credit Program

University of Memphis Law Review, Vol. 37, p. 659, 2007

47 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2010

Janet Thompson Jackson

Washburn University School of Law

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Today, black-owned enterprises are one of the most dynamic elements of the U.S. economy (U.S. Census Bureau News). At the same time, many minority-owned businesses struggle to flourish in urban, low-income communities, even as these communities receive life-giving transfusions from business development programs, such as the New Markets Tax Credit Program (Community Renewal Tax Relief Act 2000, tit. 1, subtitle C, sec. 121(a)). While the New Markets Program increased economic development in many urban and rural areas, it has missed the opportunity to significantly invest in minority-owned businesses in low-income urban communities, which historically has been the economic cornerstone of black communities.

As Congress considers whether to reauthorize the New Markets Program, this Article examines the origins of the Program and the entrepreneurial legacy of black America. Has the New Markets Program achieved its laudable goal – to stimulate free enterprise in poor communities that have been left behind? Has business development promoted by the New Markets Program translated into broader community revitalization? Have investors recognized and acted upon investment opportunities in isolated, racially segregated, and blighted communities? Have investors’ for-profit interests harmonized with the interests and needs of low-income community residents? While some would judge the New Markets Program as an overwhelming success, this Article asserts that the Program has, with few notable exceptions, missed the opportunity to invest in minority-owned businesses in low-income urban communities. The Program’s inattention to this area seriously diminishes its long-term impact in poor communities of color.

Keywords: Free Enterprise, Tax Credit Program, Tax Incentive, Business Development, Low-Income Investment, New Markets Program, Black Entrepreneurship, Minority-Owned Businesses

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Janet Thompson, Can Free Enterprise Cure Urban Ills? Lost Opportunities for Business Development in Urban, Low-Income Communities Through the New Markets Tax Credit Program (2007). University of Memphis Law Review, Vol. 37, p. 659, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1671588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
counseling and other services is defined as "advice provided by the CDE relating to the organization or operation of a trade or business
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue 7 Posted: 2006
The Internal Revenue Service amended the definition of qualified low-income community investment to include investments through two additional CDEs. For example, a CDE (second CDE) that receives a loan or equity investment from another CDE (primary CDE) is now permitted to make a loan or equity investment in another CDE (third CDE) and that third CDE is permitted to make a loan or equity investment in another CDE (fourth CDE). In all cases, the proceeds of the investment or loan must be used in a manner consistent with current regulations and in a manner that would constitute a QUCI if it were made directly by the primary CDE
See Community Development Financial Institutions Fund: Guidance, New Markets Tax Credit Program, 66 Fed. Reg. at 21,846 Posted: 2006
I R C 45d
Information provided by The Coral Company on file with the author. Most of the tenants in Arbor Place are national chains. 216. Real estate activities may include loans to non-profit organizations to purchase and rehabilitate theatres and to support health clinics, childcare facilities, and community-based charter schools, and the property acquisition and development of for-sale housing
New Markets Tax Credit Coalition, New Markets Tax Credit Fact Sheet , volume 214 Posted: 2004-08-31
&amp; Rubin , Stankewicz
at 79. (describing how Magic Johnson Development Corporation, owned by Earvin "Magic" Johnson, initially was denied loans by three major financial institutions for commercial development projects in minority low
Chi. Sun-Times Posted: 2005-02-14
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,530
RANK
401,129
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies