Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical View of the GASB (German Accounting Standards Board) Draft 'White Paper' on the Future of European Creditor Protection

Posted: 8 Sep 2010

Andreas Haaker

Independent

Date Written: March 31, 2010

Abstract

Regulations that limit dividend payouts, made by limited liability companies in order to safeguard the interests of creditors, represent important legal constraints as they ensure a minimum level of protection. Hereby, this task, which is performed in Germany by annual financial statements according to German Commercial Code (HGB), is an important part of the European regulatory framework. But these capital maintenance regulations are under close scrutiny now. The annual non-consolidated financial statements following HGB are in danger of being replaced by the IFRS accounting supported by a solvency test. However, it is questionable if this combination of IFRS and a solvency test in general can provide a “double safeguarding”.

According to a draft of a German Accounting Standards Board (GASB) “white paper” on the future of European creditor protection, presented and discussed on its 127th meeting, the GASB supported the implementation of non-consolidated financial statements following IFRS accounting without additional research on this topic. Given the obvious support of the “IFRS solution”, it can only be assumed that the GASB has already established a political position.

This paper aims to analyse the draft of a GASB “white paper” in the light of the objective of adequate creditor protection. The economic analysis should serve as a starting point for further academic and legal policy discussions.

Keywords: German Accounting Standards Board, Capital maintenance, Creditor protection, Solvency test, IFRS, German Commercial Code, Dividend payouts

JEL Classification: K20, M41, M48, G35

Suggested Citation:

Haaker, Andreas, A Critical View of the GASB (German Accounting Standards Board) Draft 'White Paper' on the Future of European Creditor Protection (March 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1673084
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies