Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Snookered Again: Castle Harbour Revisited

Tax Notes, p. 1143, September 2010

San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 10-034

13 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2010

Karen C. Burke

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Grayson M.P. McCouch

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: September 14, 2010

Abstract

In this special report, the authors examine the Castle Harbour transaction, which used a partnership financing structure to shift substantial amounts of taxable rental income from domestic corporations to untaxed foreign banks. Although the Second Circuit determined that the foreign banks were not bona fide equity partners under the Culbertson totality-of-the circumstances test, the district court on remand held that the banks qualified as partners under section 704(e) based on their ownership of a capital interest in a capital-intensive partnership. The district court’s reading of section 704(e) calls into question longstanding doctrine concerning partner status under section 761. After explaining the interaction of partnership income and loss allocations with guaranteed payments, the authors review the background of the family partnership rules and conclude that section 704(e) should be read in conjunction with, rather than in derogation of, the general definitions of partners and partnerships in section 761.

Keywords: Partnership, Partner, Allocations, Equity, Culbertson, Castle Harbour, Classification, Business Purpose

JEL Classification: K31

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Karen C. and McCouch, Grayson M.P., Snookered Again: Castle Harbour Revisited (September 14, 2010). Tax Notes, p. 1143, September 2010, San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 10-034, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1676912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
478,514
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies