Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Accounting Data to Predict Bank Financial Distress in MENA Countries

International Journal of Banking, Accounting, and Finance, Vol. 2, No. 4, 2010

Posted: 4 Oct 2010

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Amine Tarazi

University of Limoges - Laboratoire d'Analyse et de Prospectives Économiques (LAPE); University of Limoges - Faculty of Law and Economic Science; Economic Research Forum (ERF)

Isabelle Distinguin

Université de Limoges, LAPE

Date Written: October 4, 2010

Abstract

Using an innovative approach of following the downgrade or credit rating decisions by rating agencies, this paper develops an early-warning system of bank financial distress and critically evaluates the reliability and stability of the potential indicators or factors of banks in 13 emerging economies in the MENA region. Evidence portrays that the capital, asset quality, earnings, and liquidity ratios are accurate accounting indicators to predict bank financial distress. However, we observe that influence of factors vary across size of the banks as accounting information does not appear reliable to predict bank financial distress of small banks. By contrast, the balance sheet structure of banks (both the asset side and liability side) does not affect the accuracy of accounting indicators.

Keywords: Ratings, Financial distress, Bank risk, MENA Countries

JEL Classification: G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Hasan, Iftekhar and Tarazi, Amine and Distinguin, Isabelle, The Use of Accounting Data to Predict Bank Financial Distress in MENA Countries (October 4, 2010). International Journal of Banking, Accounting, and Finance, Vol. 2, No. 4, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1686971
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Decision-Making under Risk & Uncertainty eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies