Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Withholding Tax on Total Return Equity Swaps: Navigating in Turbulent Waters

46 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2010

Luis Rodriguez

Alfred University - Associate Professor of Law & Taxation

Date Written: October 1, 2010

Abstract

This article gives historical perspective as to how U.S. tax authorities struggled to fit a sophisticated financial product like Total Return Equity Swaps into the existing tax “cubbyholes”, and suggests that the current methodology used by U.S. tax authorities to analyze sophisticated financial products needs to be reconsidered.

Keywords: Total Return Equity Swaps, Derivatives, Withholding Tax

Suggested Citation:

Rodriguez, Luis, Withholding Tax on Total Return Equity Swaps: Navigating in Turbulent Waters (October 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1687949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1687949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Stop , H R Act
1265 AND S 506, 111TH CONG Posted: 2009
Lee A Sheppard
How to Fix Withholding on Securities Loans and Swaps, Part 2, TAX NOTES TODAY , p. 49 - 55 Posted: 2009-03-16
issued shares is finite, then the amount of withholding tax is just as finite. However, "naked" bets of have the potential to expand the universe upon which withholding tax may be imposed without the number of issued shares increasing
Id
, p. 1300 - 1301
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,796
RANK
350,748
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies