Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the SEC's Growing Fondness for the IFRS: Implications of the Movement Away from U.S. GAAP

24 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2010

M. Hasan Aijaz

George Mason University, Antonin Scalia Law School

Date Written: October 7, 2010

Abstract

Recent years have seen strong signs that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission is moving towards accepting the International Financial Reporting Standards which signals the end of the dominance of the U.S. GAAP as the preeminent financial reporting standard. This paper surveys economic studies that have been conducted on other countries which have moved away from national reporting standards and to the IFRS. This paper then analyzes those results in conjunction with the tightened regulatory framework that issuers face when entering American exchanges and suggests specific mitigating measures that American regulators should implement in order to remain a competitive capital market.

Keywords: IFRS, U.S. GAAP, SEC, financial regulation

Suggested Citation:

Aijaz, M. Hasan, An Analysis of the SEC's Growing Fondness for the IFRS: Implications of the Movement Away from U.S. GAAP (October 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1689305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1689305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
C Donald , U S Langevoort
Securities Regulation and Global Competition, 3 VA. L. &
BUS. REV , volume 191 Posted: 2008
M Steven , Davidoff
Regulating Listings in a Global market , volume 156 Posted: 2007
Hanson
Crossref
Thompson
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
588,428
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies