Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lien on Me: Virtual Debtors Prisons, the Practical Effects of Tax Liens and Proposals for Reform

University of Louisville Law Review, Vol. 49, 2011

Albany Law School Research Paper No. 10-24

34 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2010 Last revised: 27 Oct 2010

Danshera Cords

Albany Law School

Date Written: October 12, 2010

Abstract

This Article discusses the harm that a notice of federal tax lien can cause an individual as a result of the effect of filing a notice of federal tax lien has on an individual’s credit report. Recent evidence indicates that such filings are often made automatically, without consideration of the assets the individual possesses or whether the government is obtaining priority in anything through its filing. That is, in many cases the government may not be increasing the likelihood it will collect the already owed taxes and may even be decreasing the likelihood that the individual against which the notice of federal tax lien is filed will be able to become compliant with their current or future tax obligations. Even more troubling, if unpaid, such liens may remain on the individual’s credit report forever. This black mark may make it difficult or impossible for the individual to obtain better housing, employment, or otherwise improve their situation in ways that would permit the individual to return to a place in the system where they could positively contribute, as a taxpayer and as a productive member society. Alternatively, these individuals must become part of the underground economy or rely on the social safety net, draining other government resources.

This Article concludes that a number of changes are required. First, notices of federal tax lien must not be issued without a consideration of whether they will increase the likelihood of collecting the tax liability. Second, the Internal Revenue Code must be changed to require a withdrawal of lien, which treats a notice of federal tax lien as having never been filed, after payment of the tax lien because of the changes in the ways that credit reports are used and the harm that can cause to the government and the individual. Finally, changes are needed to the Fair Credit Reporting Act to require that notices of federal tax lien be removed from an individual’s credit report after the same number of years after the lien becomes unenforceable as other debts because there is no sound policy reason for tax liens to be reported as negative items forever. Indeed such reporting is against both the government’s and individual’s interests.

Keywords: federal tax, tax, tax lien, Internal Revenue Code

Suggested Citation:

Cords, Danshera, Lien on Me: Virtual Debtors Prisons, the Practical Effects of Tax Liens and Proposals for Reform (October 12, 2010). University of Louisville Law Review, Vol. 49, 2011, Albany Law School Research Paper No. 10-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1691187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,758
RANK
399,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies