Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
India's Tryst with GST and Accounting Convergence

11 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2010 Last revised: 17 Mar 2011

Vibhooti Malhotra

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law; National Law University, Jodhpur

Date Written: October 15, 2010

Abstract

The way business account books are maintained and how the tax computation is undertaken are inter-linked concerns of any business corporation. Both constitute an element of cost and are inversely related. India is at a very interesting stage in its financial history - where the manner in which companies record their transactions and also the manner seeks to tax them is going to change. The phased implementation of IFRS standards and DTC and GST tax regimes raises a multitude of questions.

This paper examines the various issues are likely to arise due to simultaneous application of GST and IFRS.

Keywords: IFRS, GST, Revenue Recognition

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Malhotra, Vibhooti and Malhotra, Vibhooti, India's Tryst with GST and Accounting Convergence (October 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1692839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1692839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,750
RANK
257,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies