Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Disclosure of Tax Liabilities, Fair Trial and Self-Incrimination: Should the European Commission Endorse IFRS in Light of European Human Rights?

GREIT Conference Paper Series, 2010

21 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2010

Raymond Luja

Maastricht University - Department of Tax Law

Date Written: September 17, 2010

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Body (IASB) is in the process of revising International Accounting Standards (IAS) 12 and 37, which will affect the accounting disclosure of (contingent) tax liabilities. As part of the European Union’s endorsement process the European Commission must consider whether any of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) replacing IAS 12 and IAS 37 comply with the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and the EU’s Charter of Fundamental Rights.

The accounting disclosure of liabilities arising from ongoing legal disputes, and tax liabilities and tax disputes in particular, may affect a taxpayer’s right to a fair trial as guaranteed by Article 6 ECHR in cases where a substantial tax penalty would be at issue. Under threat of accounting penalties, a taxpayer may be inclined to incriminate himself by disclosing contingent tax liabilities arising from reconsidering a previously bona fide tax positions taken in the past which might trigger penalties in hindsight. Moreover disclosure of contingent tax liabilities, even when aggregated, could lead to revealing the reporting entity’s own estimates of being able to hold up its tax positions to both the tax authorities and the courts in ongoing tax litigation.

Under the current IAS 12 it is still possible not to disclose contingent tax liabilities in case doing so would seriously prejudice ongoing or upcoming tax litigation. The IASB is about to propose to cancel out this serious-prejudice exemption.

It follows from the European Court of Human Right (ECtHR)’s Allen decision that, while disclosing tax information may be necessary for operating a tax enforcement system, the disclosure of accounting information revealing previous (tax) offences may still violate the right to remain silent. Although the mere existence of accounting penalties would not attribute to improper compulsion under the ECtHR’s current case law in order to conclude that Article 6 of the European Convention has been violated, it must be considered that the active threat of penalties being imposed by government-endorsed accounting supervisors may.

It is the author’s opinion that for these latter cases, the serious-prejudice carve out should be maintained despite efforts to redraft IAS 12 in a way to exclude detection risks as a factor to be taken into consideration for disclosure in line with the US example of FIN 48. If necessary the European Commission should add such carve out upon endorsement of the future IFRS on Income Tax.

Keywords: Tax Liabilities, European Union, Fair Trial, Accounting, Human Rights, Uncertain Tax Positions, Self-Incrimination, IFRS, IASB

JEL Classification: G38, H25, K34, K40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Luja, Raymond, Accounting Disclosure of Tax Liabilities, Fair Trial and Self-Incrimination: Should the European Commission Endorse IFRS in Light of European Human Rights? (September 17, 2010). GREIT Conference Paper Series, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1699736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,350
RANK
237,609
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies