Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of the IAS/IFRS Adoption in the European Union on the Cost of Equity: First Evidence from the Bank Industry

Posted: 13 Nov 2010 Last revised: 17 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

The effect of disclosure level on the cost of equity is a matter of considerable interest and importance to the financial reporting community.

In this research, I examined the effects of the IAS/IFRS adoption in Europe on the cost of equity capital relative to the bank industry.

Previous research has shown that the adoption of the IAS/IFRS reduces information asymmetry between investors and firms. Economic theory claims that a commitment to increased level of disclosure reduces the cost of capital component that arises from information asymmetries.

This study shows empirically that the increase in the level of disclosure provided by the IAS/IFRS leads effectively to a lower cost of capital. From a practical point of view, these findings provide evidence that the Regulator’s purpose of fostering a cost-efficient functioning of the capital market for firms could be considered as reached. Furthermore, they point out that firms which implemented the IAS/IFRS have gained a comparative advantage on the equity market relatively to firms still adopting accounting standards based on the IV and VII European Directives.

This research also examined whether accounting standardization at a European level had reduced cross-country differences in the cost of equity. The adoption of the same accounting standard set within the Community was expected to improve comparability, eliminate accounting measurement errors in pricing firms and, in such a way, reduce cross-country differences in the cost of equity. This hypothesis did not find empirical support and alternate explanations for such a result were provided. The first is that flexibility still allowed by the IAS/IFRS with regard to some accounting treatments could hamper a perfect comparability among firms. The second one is that convergence in the cost of equity may require more time than that covered by this research. The third one is that while, on the one hand, accounting standardization has eliminated measurement errors in assessing firms’ risk reducing differences in their cost of equity, on the other hand, the IAS/IFRS adoption has exerted an opposite effect on the cost of equity improving firms’ level of disclosure, allowing investors to better differentiate among firms’ risk, hence increasing cost of capital variability.

Keywords: Mandatory accounting changes, Cost of equity capital, International accounting standards

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, The Effects of the IAS/IFRS Adoption in the European Union on the Cost of Equity: First Evidence from the Bank Industry (2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1707328
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies