Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability in a Global Economy: The Emergence of International Accountability Standards

Business Ethics Quarterly, Vol. 21, No.1, pp. 23-44

29 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2010 Last revised: 21 Nov 2010

Dirk Ulrich Gilbert

University of Hamburg

Andreas Rasche

Copenhagen Business School; University of Warwick

Sandra Waddock

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: November 14, 2010

Abstract

This article assesses the proliferation of international accountability standards (IAS) in the recent past. We provide a comprehensive overview about the different types of standards and discus their role as part of a new institutional infrastructure for corporate responsibility. Based on this, it is argued that IAS can advance corporate responsibility on a global level because they contribute to the closure of some omnipresent governance gaps. IAS also improve the preparedness of an organization to give an explanation and a justification to relevant stakeholders for its judgments, intentions, acts and omissions when appropriately called upon to do so. However, IAS also face a variety of problems impeding their potential to help address social and environmental issues. The contribution of the four articles in this Special Issue is discussed in the context of standards’ problems and opportunities to foster corporate responsibility. The article closes by outlining a research agenda to further develop and extend the scholarly debate around IAS.

Suggested Citation:

Gilbert, Dirk Ulrich and Rasche, Andreas and Waddock, Sandra, Accountability in a Global Economy: The Emergence of International Accountability Standards (November 14, 2010). Business Ethics Quarterly, Vol. 21, No.1, pp. 23-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1709011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
K W Abbott , D Snidal
Hard and soft law in international governance
International Organization , volume 54 , p. 421 - 456 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K W Abbott , R O Keohane , A Moravcsik , A.-M Slaughter , D Snidal
The concept of legalization
International Organization , volume 54 , p. 401 - 419 Posted: 2000
Crossref
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J A Arevalo , F T Fallon
Assessing corporate responsibility as a contribution to global governance: The case of the UN Global Compact. Corporate Governance: The International Journal of Effective Board Performance , volume 8 , p. 456 - 470 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
954
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,866
RANK
55,833
15 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Toward a Political Conception of Corporate Responsibility - Business and Society Seen from a Habermasian Perspective

By Andreas Georg Scherer and Guido Palazzo

The Corporate Objective Revisited

By Anant K. Sundaram and Andrew C. Inkpen

Corporate Legitimacy as Deliberation: A Communicative Framework

By Guido Palazzo and Andreas Georg Scherer

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies