Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No Deductions for Tax Planning and Controversy Costs

Tax Notes, 2010

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 192

The Shelf Project

8 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2010

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: November 16, 2010

Abstract

Calvin H. Johnson is a professor of law at the University of Texas. The author wishes to thank Adam Rosenzweig, Mary O’Keefe, Abraham Wickelgren, Michael Shepard, and James Spindler for helpful comments without binding them to conclusions with which they disagree.

The law gives a negative tax or subsidy to tax planning and controversy work, because the costs of that work are generally deductible. But the return from the investment, in the form of less tax to be paid, is not taxed. The treatment is self-destructive in that the system gives a subsidy to undercut itself. Even without the negative tax, tax planning and controversy work are too profitable for the common good, because the taxpayer making the decision does not have to consider the harm done to other taxpayers who must make up the tax revenue.

This proposal would disallow the deduction of the costs of tax planning, return preparation, tax audits, litigation, collection, and refunds. Payments to tax experts - including in-house experts - and the costs of tax litigation would be disallowed in full. An intermediate remedy - denying 25 percent of the costs - would apply to investment planning and structuring by professionals who are not tax specialists and when the work is not primarily tax-related but tax issues are present.

The proposal is made as a part of the Shelf Project, a collaboration among tax professionals to develop proposals to raise revenue. The Shelf Project is intended to raise revenue without a VAT or a rate hike in ways that will improve the fairness, efficiency, and rationality of the tax system. Now is the time for congressional staff work to be done to prevent the impending revenue crisis. An overview of the Shelf Project is found in "How to Raise $1 Trillion Without a VAT or a Rate Hike," Tax Notes, July 5, 2010, p. 101, Doc 2010-13081, or 2010 TNT 129-4. Congress enacted its first Shelf Project in March 2010. New section 871(1), enacted in the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, is based on the Shelf Project proposal by Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, "Enforcing Dividend Withholding on Derivatives," Tax Notes, Nov. 10, 2008, p. 747, Doc 2008-22806, or 2008 TNT 219-34.

Shelf Project proposals follow the format of a congressional tax committee report in explaining current law, what is wrong with it, and how to fix it.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, No Deductions for Tax Planning and Controversy Costs (November 16, 2010). Tax Notes, 2010, U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 192, The Shelf Project, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1710157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Calvin Harsha Johnson
When ‘Simplification’ is a Trojan Horse for Great Harm
Tax Notes, Vol. 146, No. 9, 2015, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. UTPUB627 · 8 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2015 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,819
RANK
653,956
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies