Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don’t Let Capital Accounts go Negative

Tax Notes, 2010

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 191

The Shelf Project

13 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2010

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: November 16, 2010

Abstract

Calvin H. Johnson is a professor of law at the University of Texas. The author wishes to thank Deborah Geier, Adam Rosensweig, John Steines, and Patrick O’Daniel for helpful comments on a prior draft without binding them to conclusions with which they disagree.

A negative capital account is a partnership tax concept describing the situation in which adjusted basis in partnership assets is less than the outstanding debt of the partnership. When the capital account is negative, the partnership is a tax shelter, worth more after tax than in the absence of tax. The shelter subsidy distorts the use of capital and induces investment into projects that are not justified by their real pretax economic merits. The term "negative capital account" is now used only in the partnership tax context, but the underlying concept of adjusted basis below debt applies to assets owned by a single corporation or individual.

This proposal would prohibit deductions that would reduce a taxpayer’s capital account below zero. Subsidies resulting in negative tax should be given only when justified by the federal budget process. Real business activity that does not depend on the negative tax would be unaffected by the proposal.

Deductions suspended by the tax limitation would be allowed when the capital account is positive by enough to allow the deduction because the debt is paid off or income or contributions come into the activity. The adjusted basis side of the capital account would include all assets that could be reached by the liability.

The proposal is made as a part of the Shelf Project, a collaboration among tax professionals to develop proposals to raise revenue. The Shelf Project is intended to raise revenue without a VAT or a rate hike in ways that will improve the fairness, efficiency, and rationality of the tax system. Now is the time for congressional staff work to be done to prevent the impending revenue crisis. An overview of the Shelf Project is found in "How to Raise $1 Trillion Without a VAT or a Rate Hike," Tax Notes, July 5, 2010, p. 101, Doc 2010-13081, or 2010 TNT 129-4. Congress adopted its first Shelf Project in March 2010. New section 871(1), enacted in the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, is based on the Shelf Project proposal by Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, "Enforcing Dividend Withholding on Derivatives," Tax Notes, Nov. 10, 2008, p. 747, Doc 2008-22806, or 2008 TNT 219-34.

Shelf Project proposals follow the format of a congressional tax committee report in explaining current law, what is wrong with it, and how to fix it.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Don’t Let Capital Accounts go Negative (November 16, 2010). Tax Notes, 2010, U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 191, The Shelf Project, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1710160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,709
RANK
262,460
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies