Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculative Technologies and Accountability: The SEC’s Interactive Data Project

40 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2010

Alan Lowe

School of Accounting; Aston University - Aston Business School - Finance and Accounting Group

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 24, 2010

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the United States mandated a new digital reporting system for US companies in late 2008. The new generation of information provision has been dubbed by Chairman Cox, ‘interactive data’ (SEC, 2006). Despite the promise of its name, we find that in the development of the project retail investors are invoked as calculative actors rather than engaged in dialogue. Similarly, the potential for the underlying technology to be applied in ways to encourage new forms of accountability appears to be forfeited in the interests of enrolling company filers.

We theorise the activities of the SEC and in particular its chairman at the time, Christopher Cox, over a three year period, both prior to and following the ‘credit crisis’. We argue that individuals and institutions play a central role in advancing the socio-technical project that is constituted by interactive data. We adopt insights from ANT (Callon, 1986; Latour, 1987, 2005b) and governmentality (Miller, 2008; Miller and Rose, 2008) to show how regulators and the proponents of the technology have acted as spokespersons for the interactive data technology and the retail investor. We examine the way in which calculative accountability has been privileged in the SEC’s construction of the retail investor as concerned with atomised, quantitative data (Kamuf, 2007; Roberts, 2009; Tsoukas, 1997). We find that the possibilities for the democratising effects of digital information on the internet has not been realised in the interactive data project and that it contains risks for the very investors the SEC claims to seek to protect.

Keywords: Interactive Data, SEC, Retail Investor, Accountability

JEL Classification: G38

Suggested Citation:

Lowe, Alan, Calculative Technologies and Accountability: The SEC’s Interactive Data Project (November 24, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1714495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1714495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Towards greater transparency: Modernizing the Securities and Exchange Commission's disclosure system Posted: 2009
H Ashbaugh , K M Johnstone , T D Warfield
Corporate reporting on the internet. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , p. 241 - 57 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Australian investors at a glance
Sydney: Australian Securities and Investments Commission , volume 121
C R Baker
Epistemological objectivity in financial reporting: Does internet accounting require a new accounting model? Accounting , volume 19 , p. 663 - 80 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
310,241
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Understanding Enron: It's About the Gatekeepers, Stupid

By John C. Coffee

Enron and the Dark Side of Shareholder Value

By William W. Bratton

Board Models in Europe - Recent Developments of Internal Corporate Governance Structures in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and Italy

By Klaus J. Hopt and Patrick C. Leyens

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies