Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Accounting and IFRS

International Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 5, No. 10, p. 105, October 2010

8 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2010

Mohammad Firoz

Cambridge University Press, India

A. Aziz Ansari

Jamai Millia Islamia, Dept. of Commerce & Business Studies

Date Written: November 26, 2010

Abstract

As financial globalization proceeds, international financial reporting and auditing standards are increasingly becoming important instruments of integration. This has been observed in both the London and Pittsburg summits of the G20 leaders in 2009. The G20 leaders reinforced the influence of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in that they called for the implementation of global accounting standards by 2011. By the end of 2008, there were over 100 countries that had adopted IFRS. Another parallel summit was the United Nations special summit on the environment which was held on 22 September 2009. The United Nations’ summit underscored the link between environment and finance. This research paper makes a critical appraisal of the contemporary environmental accounting literature and examines the applicable and relevant paragraphs of the global financial reporting standards (IFRS). The relevant paragraphs for environmental accounting have been analyzed in relation to the environmental financial reporting.

Keywords: Environmental reporting, IFRS, Environmental financial reporting, Environmental costs

Suggested Citation:

Firoz, Mohammad and Ansari, A. Aziz, Environmental Accounting and IFRS (November 26, 2010). International Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 5, No. 10, p. 105, October 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1715436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Towards a Framework for Indicators of Sustainable Development. Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Posted: 1994
M Bartolomeo
Environmental management accounting in Europe: current practice and future potential
The European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V Beattie , B Mc Innes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: a comprenhensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum. no , volume 28 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R J Bebbington , C Gray , E Hibbitt , Kirk
Full Cost Accounting: An Agenda for Action. London: The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,044
RANK
16,744
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies