Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Transalpine Look at Equity Derivatives: Convergence and Divergence in Disclosure and Takeover Regulations in the EU

Revue Trimestrielle de Droit Financier, Vol. 3, No. 5, pp. 64-74, 2012

11 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2013

Romain Dambre

Shearman & Sterling LLP

Marco Dell'Erba

University of Zurich; New York University School of Law; The Wilson Center

Date Written: October 9, 2012

Abstract

The difference between the French and the Italian regulatory approaches to cash-settled equity derivatives (CSDs), particularly in the context of takeover regulation, underlines a conflicting relationship with respect to the harmonization of financial market regulations, exacerbated by the complexity of financial innovation and the specific corporate governance and transparency issues raised by CSDs. It demonstrates a dual movement of convergence in disclosure regulations and divergence in takeover regulations from one side of the Alps to the other, which hinders the harmonization of capital markets law in the EU.

Keywords: equity derivatives, cash-settled, takeover directive, transparency directive, financial innovation, securities regulation, corporate law, harmonization

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Dambre, Romain and Dell'Erba, Marco, A Transalpine Look at Equity Derivatives: Convergence and Divergence in Disclosure and Takeover Regulations in the EU (October 9, 2012). Revue Trimestrielle de Droit Financier, Vol. 3, No. 5, pp. 64-74, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1716827
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
• predispose transparency rules in order to control the impact of the detention of derivatives on the proprietary assets of the issuers ; on the other side, with specific regard to the public offers, a "case by case" verification of the potential participation related to the detention of derivatives and the eventual calculation of the potential participation trough the rules on the interposition and concert
Ibid
Crossref
Articles 37 and 41, § 2 and 7 of the Issuers' Regulation
Article 42, § 2 of the Issuers' Regulation
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,477
RANK
211,623
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies