Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
High Volatility, Negative Correlation, Roth IRA Conversions, and the Codified Economic Substance Doctrine

UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1717019

9 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2010

Gregg D. Polsky

University of Georgia School of Law

Abstract

This paper describes and analyzes an investment strategy that, when combined with simple Roth IRA conversion planning, can substantially reduce the tax costs of Roth conversions. The strategy leverages, through the combination of volatily and negative correlation, the put option feature inherent in Roth IRA recharacterizations. The only significant risk to taxpayers who execute the strategy is that the IRS might assert that the recently codified economic substance doctrine (and its strict liability penalty) applies to disallow the tax benefit. However, the doctrine appears not to be relevant in this context, where Congress has given taxpayers an explicit election to recharacterize Roth IRA conversions. Even if the doctrine were to apply, it would not likely increase current year tax liability.

Suggested Citation:

Polsky, Gregg D., High Volatility, Negative Correlation, Roth IRA Conversions, and the Codified Economic Substance Doctrine. UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1717019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1717019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1717019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,823
RANK
95,771
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of North Carolina Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies