Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Founders’ Stock

UCLA Law Review, Vol. 59, No. 1, 2011

52 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2010 Last revised: 31 Oct 2011

Victor Fleischer

UC-Irvine School of Law

Date Written: February 13, 2011

Abstract

Founders of a start-up usually take common stock as a large portion of their compensation for current and future labor efforts. By electing to pay a nominal amount of ordinary income tax on the speculative value of the stock when it is received, founders pay tax on any appreciation at the long-term capital gains rate. In a recent Harvard Law Review article, Professors Ron Gilson and David Schizer argued that this practice of paying founders with tax-favored “cheap stock” is an efficient subsidy for entrepreneurship. I disagree.

This Article argues that the preferential tax treatment of founders’ stock cannot be normatively justified. The economic efficiency case for a tax preference for founders’ stock is weak: tax is a clumsy policy instrument, and tax has a limited effect on entrepreneurial entry. Geographic, cultural, and business factors are far more important, as are non-tax legal factors like immigration policy, employment law, bankruptcy, and securities law.

The case for reform is compelling. Taxing founders at a low rate is a conspicuous loophole in the fabric of our progressive income tax system, uniquely un-dermining our shared commitment to equal opportunity and distributive jus-tice. Founders’ stock is often bequeathed to heirs who receive a step up in basis, leaving a legacy of dynastic wealth that is exempt from the income tax and subject only to the rather dodgy application of the estate tax.

While it would be normatively desirable to tax gains from founders’ stock at the same rate as labor income, fixing the problem is not administratively feasible within our current tax system. I offer solutions that policymakers might consider as part of a broader tax reform and deficit reduction effort.

Keywords: tax, entrepreneurship, capital gains, innovation

Suggested Citation:

Fleischer, Victor, Taxing Founders’ Stock (February 13, 2011). UCLA Law Review, Vol. 59, No. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1718749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
See Edward , J Mccaffery , R James , Jr Hines
The Last Best Hope for Progressivity in Tax
S Cal L Rev
A spending tax alone among feasible alternatives can collect significant tax revenue from the propertied, capitalist classes in a way that does not necessarily undercut their incentives to become propertied in the first place , volume 1031 Posted: 2010
See Weisbach, supra note 43
Richard M Bird &amp; Eric , M Zolt
Dual Income Taxation and Developing Countries, 1 COLUM
J. TAX L Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
674
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,537
RANK
88,839
3 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies