Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Important Developments in Federal Income Taxation

88 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2010

Edward A. Morse

Creighton University - School of Law

There are 9 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 18, 2010

Abstract

This outline covers significant developments in federal income taxation along with a few other related topics that the author finds interesting, curious, or worthy of comment. It is not intended to provide exhaustive coverage, but it offers a selective treatment of items likely to interest practitioners and advisers within a broad range of professional practices. Information discussed includes events from the prior year through November 18, 2010. A prior version of this outline was prepared for the Great Plains Tax Institute in Omaha, Nebraska.

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Edward A., Important Developments in Federal Income Taxation (November 18, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1718059 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1718059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
You win some, you lose some, Wells Fargo & Co. v. United States, 91 Fed
Cl , volume 35 Posted: 2010
Despite the earlier taxpayer victory in Consolidated Edison Co Posted: 2009
J Tax
) (recognizing Con Ed as an example of good lawyering)), the Court of Federal Claims dealt Wells Fargo a loss in SILO transaction. The same lawyers were involved in both cases, so these matters are apparently highly fact-sensitive. (See Lipton, Going to Trial is No Guarantee of Success in a SILO Case if Non-Tax Business Purpose is Lacking , volume 112 Posted: 2010-02
Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment
Stat , volume 124 Posted: 2010-03-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,769
RANK
11,574
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies