Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automating the Process of Taxonomy Creation and Comparison of Taxonomy Structures

18 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2010

Vasundhara Chakraborty

Rutgers University

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: October 10, 2010

Abstract

The ability to automatically extract information from the footnotes of financial statements simplifies access to critical information concerning public companies. However, extraction can be particularly challenging due to great variations in the filing structure and terminologies used. Hierarchical formalization of text becomes a necessity in such circumstances. This is facilitated by the creation of a valid taxonomy. The objectives of this paper are threefold: (1) to develop a semiautomatic method of taxonomy creation; (2) to compare the structure of the taxonomy created with the XBRL US GAAP taxonomy and (3) to demonstrate how the tool developed as a part of this process can be used for more exploratory research. Pension plan footnotes of 10K statements have been used to demonstrate the use of this method. To create a taxonomy, we first collected 10K statements from SEC EDGAR (Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval) then extracted pension footnotes, and restructured the data. We then applied the Hierarchical clustering algorithm to this data to create the taxonomy structure. Comparison of the taxonomy developed with the XBRL taxonomy reveals some differences. In general the reporting trends of companies reveal a greater level of aggregation. Pension footnote structures of forty five randomly selected companies were compared across ten years. Several instances were found where the company has added new terms or a completely new section to the footnote or a term is missing.

The contribution of this paper are: (i) a method to formalize and partially automate the complex and time consuming process of taxonomy creation using historical data has been proposed; (ii) a generic parsing tool as a part of the taxonomy creation process is developed; (iii) structural differences between the official XBRL US GAAP taxonomy and taxonomy using historical data are demonstrated (iv) potential use of the parsing and matching tool for other exploratory research in accounting is shown.

Keywords: Taxonomy, Pension disclosure, XBRL

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chakraborty, Vasundhara and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Automating the Process of Taxonomy Creation and Comparison of Taxonomy Structures (October 10, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1719611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1719611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
M J Bates
Subject access in online catalogs: a design model
Remarks by Governor Susan Schmidt Bies, At the Conference on Market Discipline , volume 37 , p. 357 - 376 Posted: 1986-11
Crossref
M Bovee , A Kogan , R P Srivastava , M A Vasarhelyi , K M Nelson
Financial Reporting and Auditing Agent with Net Knowledge (FRAANK) and eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL)
Journal of Information Systems , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 41 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Bovee , M Ettredge , R P Srivastava , M A Vasarhelyi
Does the Year 2000 XBRL Taxonomy Accommodate Current Business Financial Reporting Practice?
Journal of Information Systems , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 182 Posted: 2002
Crossref
H Chen , K J Lynch
Automatic Construction of Networks of Concepts Characterizing Document Databases
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics , volume 22 , issue 5 , p. 885 - 902 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Lanxin Jiang , Yu Gu , Jun Dai
Environmental, Social, and Governance Taxonomy Simplification: A Hybrid Text Mining Approach
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 305 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Ingrid E. Fisher , Margaret R. Garnsey , Mark E. Hughes
Natural Language Processing in Accounting, Auditing and Finance: A Synthesis of the Literature with a Roadmap for Future Research
Intelligent Systems in Accounting, Finance and Management , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 157 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Miklos A. Vasarhelyi , David Y. Chan , J. P. Krahel
Consequences of XBRL Standardization on Financial Statement Data
Journal of Information Systems , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 155 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Yingmin Zhang , Yujing Chen , Wenquan Luo , Jing Zhang , Dong Wang
Game analysis of XBRL taxonomy extension
Cluster Computing , volume 22 , issue S5 , p. 12529 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
284
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,946
RANK
245,493
5 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies