Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Negative Effect of the Marriage Penalty Tax on American Society

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 103-125, 2009

26 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2010 Last revised: 16 Dec 2010

Frederick J. Feucht

Prairie View A&M University

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Robert Strawser

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

This study is an extension of prior research that quantifies the magnitude of the marriage penalty tax (MPT) and measures the distributional effects on the U.S. population in general. We use the Internal Revenue Service’s Statistics of Income (SOI) data and the Census Bureau’s year Current Population Survey (CPS) database. Estimates of the MPT are computed based on the effects of the most recent tax act to all taxpayers according to class of income. The study examines distribution of the MPT and projects effects of current tax law affecting MPT, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. Enactment of this tax law was partly motivated by President Bush’s assessment that the tax code frequently taxes couples more after marriage and the MPT contradicts not only basic values but any reasonable sense of fairness. However, even after the passage of the act, results of this study indicate that while the marriage penalty tax is reduced, it continues to negatively impact American society. This, in turn, may have important implications for the social welfare of the nation. To make matters worse, current reductions in MPT will ‘sunset’ or expire after 2010, unless Congress votes to extend provisions of JGTRRA (aka Bush Tax Cuts).

Keywords: MPT, Income Tax, Marriage Penalty Tax, Bush Tax Cuts

JEL Classification: E62, H2, H24, K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Feucht, Frederick J. and Smith, Murphy and Strawser, Robert, The Negative Effect of the Marriage Penalty Tax on American Society. Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 103-125, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1721205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
J Alm , L A Whittington
Does the income tax affect marital decisions?
National Tax Journal , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 565 - 572 Posted: 1995
J Alm , L A Whittington
The rise and fall and rise… of the marriage tax
National Tax Journal , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 571 - 589 Posted: 1996
J Alm , L A Whittington
For love or money? The impact of income taxes on marriage
Economica , volume 66 , issue 263 , p. 297 - 316 Posted: 1999
Crossref
J Brozovsky , A J Cataldo
A historical analysis of the marriage penalty tax
Accounting Historians Journal , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 163 - 174 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,094
RANK
144,925
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Relational Contracts, Taxation and the Household

By Patricia F. Apps and Ray Rees

Collective Labour Supply: Heterogeneity and Nonparticipation

By Richard W. Blundell, Pierre-andre Chiappori, ...

Collective Labour Supply: Heterogeneity and Non-Participation

By Richard W. Blundell, Pierre-andre Chiappori, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies