Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments on the European Commission Green Paper

Rivista delle Società, Vol. 56, pp. 485-493, 2011

Max Planck Private Law Research Paper No. 10/24

13 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2010 Last revised: 17 Nov 2015

Walter Doralt

University of Graz (Austria)

Andreas Martin Fleckner

Humboldt University of Berlin - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Klaus J. Hopt

Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christoph Kumpan

Bucerius Law School

Felix Steffek

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Reinhard Zimmermann

Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Alexander Hellgardt

University of Augsburg - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Susanne Augenhofer

University of Innsbruck

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Trust in the independence of auditors is essential for the functioning of markets. If auditors are not independent or not believed to be independent, transaction costs will rise. In our view, structural weaknesses currently impair auditor independence. We therefore put forward several reform proposals: consulting engagements of statutory auditors should be limited; the fees generated from an audited company should be disclosed; auditors should be appointed for a fixed multi-year period; following an internal rotation, one renewal should be possible; thereafter, an external rotation should be required, excluding the current audit firm from performing the statutory audit for one subsequent term. With these and related measures, trust in the independence of auditors will be restored and strengthened.

Note: This post-print is published in the Max Planck Private Law Research Paper Series with the permission of the rights owners, Giuffrè Editore. As printed in: Rivista delle società 56 (2011), 485–493. An updated version of this paper, taking into account the draft presented by the European Commission in November 2011, has appeared as Max Planck Private Law Research Paper No. 12/1: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1983204

Keywords: audit, independence, rotation, Big Four, market concentration, internationalization, legal harmonization, standardization

JEL Classification: D43, G15, G18, G38, K22, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Doralt, Walter and Fleckner, Andreas Martin and Hopt, Klaus J. and Kumpan, Christoph and Steffek, Felix and Zimmermann, Reinhard and Hellgardt, Alexander and Hellgardt, Alexander and Augenhofer, Susanne, Comments on the European Commission Green Paper (2011). Rivista delle Società, Vol. 56, pp. 485-493, 2011, Max Planck Private Law Research Paper No. 10/24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1723039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,794
RANK
67,576
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies