Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FATCA: The Global Financial System Must Now Implement a New U.S. Reporting and Withholding System for Foreign Account Tax Compliance, Which Will Create Significant New Exposures - Managing this Risk (Part III)

Taxes - The Tax Magazine, Vol. 88, No. 9, 2010

109 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2010

Dean Marsan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

This part of the article discusses common types of with-holdable payments, the impact of fatca on audited financial statements, investor disclosure for fatca, investment fund fatca issues, the possible U.S. Treasury guidance on customer accounts and best practices for customer accounts, comparison of the qualified intermediary rules to the new rules for foreign financial institutions, the importance of distinguishing between foreign financial institutions and non-financial foreign entities, the need for clarification of whose treaty rights are waived if the FFI elects out of withholding responsibility, the general fatca provisions, confidentiality, effective date and grandfather rules, comments on the successful implementation of Chapter 4 and coordination with Chapter 3 and related prioritization issues, reporting of foreign financial assets and the definition of “specified foreign financial asset,” the new PFIC reporting rules, electronic filing of certain information returns, abusive equity swaps, the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act proposal to withhold on dividend equivalents, the 2010 Green Book proposal to prevent the avoidance of dividend withholding taxes, the tax treatment of substitute dividends and dividend equivalent payments received by foreign persons, the repeal of certain foreign exceptions to the registered bond provisions, foreign trust provisions, IRS U.S. withholding tax and information reporting examinations, the IRS Industry Directive on total return swaps, liabilities for U.S. withholding tax, interest and penalties, including the new 6-year statute of limitations, new penalties for failure to disclose foreign financial assets and the new 40% accuracy related penalty for undisclosed foreign financial assets, U.S. account exposures, prophylactic planning and action steps, corporate governance and compliance to manage the U.S. account risk.

Keywords: FATCA, HIRE Act, withholding, withholding taxes, reporting, reserves, financial institutions, investment funds, private equity, evasion, governance, FAS 5, FIN 48, withholdable payments, financial account, FFI agreement, FFI, NFFE, QI, PFIC, Chapter 4, Chapter 3, electronic filing, privacy waiver

Suggested Citation:

Marsan, Dean, FATCA: The Global Financial System Must Now Implement a New U.S. Reporting and Withholding System for Foreign Account Tax Compliance, Which Will Create Significant New Exposures - Managing this Risk (Part III) (September 1, 2010). Taxes - The Tax Magazine, Vol. 88, No. 9, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1726093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
212 References
Deborah Fields , Carol Kulish , Harvey
New U.S. Law Imposes Withholding and Reporting Requirements on Foreign Partnerships, Tax analysTs special reporT Posted: 2010-05-24
Kathleen Agbayani , Robert Albaral , Scott Frewign , Robert F Hudson , Jr Robber Kent , Jr William , J Linklater , Richard M Lipton , Marnin J Michaels , Sigurd Sorenson , Douglas M Tween , Duane Webber
Experiences with the 'New' Voluntary Disclosure Program-Some Good
Code Sec
6159; IRA L Shafiroff, IRS Practice & Procedure Deskbook, §5:15.1, Practising Law Institute Posted: 2008
Code Sec
Posted: 1463
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,964
RANK
139,795
212 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies