Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Work Related Factors that Affect Burnout Among Accounting and Finance Academicians

The Journal of Industrial Relations and Human Resources, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 110-137, September 2008

28 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2010 Last revised: 15 May 2011

Adem Anbar

Uludag University

Melek Eker

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 15, 2008

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to measure the levels of burnout among academicians and to investigate the factors that affect burnout levels of academicians in Turkey. The data were obtained by using sociodemographic data form, Maslach Burnout Inventory and “work and work environment” scale from 160 academicians that have been working in accounting and finance subdepartment in Faculties of Economics and Administrative Sciences in 78 public and private universities. In the analysis of data, descriptive statistics (mean and standard deviation), correlation analysis, factor analysis and logistic regression analysis were used. In this study, general burnout scores and subscales of burnout scores were found to be lower than other studies. The factor analysis of the 12 item “work and work environment” scale which has possible effects on burnout among academicians revealed four factors: Work environment, administrative workload, academic workload and promotion and evaluation. For determining the possible influence of factors which were revealed by factor analysis upon general burnout levels and burnout subscales, logistic regression analysis was used. Results of the logistic regression analysis indicated that the most significant predictor of burnout was the factor of work environment, followed by the factors of administrative workload, academic workload, and promotion and evaluation.

Keywords: Burnout, academicians, factors affecting burnout, academic work

Suggested Citation:

Anbar, Adem and Eker, Melek, Work Related Factors that Affect Burnout Among Accounting and Finance Academicians (September 15, 2008). The Journal of Industrial Relations and Human Resources, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 110-137, September 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1729759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Bailey
Burnout harms workers' physical health through many pathways. Monitor on Psychology , volume 37 Posted: 2006-09-16
Crossref
Y Barut , M Kalkan
Ondokuz Mayıs Universitesi ogretim elemanlarının tukenmislik duzeylerinin incelenmesi
Journal of Ondokuz Mayıs University Education Faculty , volume 14 , p. 66 - 77 Posted: 2002
J Bauer , A Stamm , K Virnich
Correlation between burnout syndrome and psychological and psychosomatic symptoms among teachers. International Arch. Occupation Environment Health , volume 79 , p. 199 - 204 Posted: 2006
M Bilici , F Mete , C Soylu , M Bekaroglu , O Kavakci
Bir grup akademisyende depresyon ve tukenme duzeyleri
Journal of Turkish Psychiatry , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 181 - 189 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
192,204
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies