Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Characteristics and Corporate Environmental Disclosure Practices in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. IX, No. 4, pp. 24-41, October 2010

Posted: 27 Dec 2010

Mitali Sen

ISM University, Dhanbad

Kuhali Mukherjee

ISM University, Dhanbad

J. K. Pattanayak

Indian School of Mines

Date Written: December 27, 2010

Abstract

The growing global concern towards corporate environmental disclosure has led to the voluntary reporting of environmental information by Indian companies as well. However, the nature and content of disclosure vary across industries and firms, and these variations can be attributed to various firm specific factors. The present study therefore aims at identifying the influence of firm-specific factors on environmental disclosure made by select Indian companies. The firm-specific characteristics identified for the study are firm size, profitability, leverage, effective tax rate and liquidity. Environmental disclosure is measured by developing an environmental disclosure index based on prior literature. The sample for the study comprises select companies chosen from ten environmentally sensitive industries, viz., distillery, sugar, fertilizer, pulp and paper, chlor alkali, pharmaceuticals, dyes and dye intermediates, pesticides, oil and refinery and petrochemicals. Consequently, a multiple regression analysis has been conducted to assess the relationship between the corporate characteristics and environmental disclosure. The findings of the study show that the influential variables for explaining firms’ variation in environmental disclosure are effective tax rate, liquidity and leverage.

Suggested Citation:

Sen, Mitali and Mukherjee, Kuhali and Pattanayak, J. K., Firm Characteristics and Corporate Environmental Disclosure Practices in India (December 27, 2010). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. IX, No. 4, pp. 24-41, October 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1731488
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies