Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measurement Systems and Management Accounting in Supermarket Chain Sector: Analysis in an Italian Complex Business Entity

11 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2010

Pier Luigi Marchini

University of Parma - Department of Economics

Ennio Lugli

University of Modena & Reggio Emilia - Department of Business and Economics

Date Written: May 1, 2008

Abstract

The paper aims to analyse the way in which management accounting is organised within companies which have a strategic need to centralise some functions and decisions, while simultaneously decentralising others. These characteristics are found above all in the supermarket chain sector, where a pressing need to centralise logistical and purchasing functions goes hand-in-hand with the need to respond to demands arising from the individual outlets’ local requirements.

In 2005, with a market share of almost 18%, Coop was Italy’s largest food retailing group. Coop’s distinctive organisational feature is that it consists of a total of 140 cooperatives, nine of them large-sized, grouped together in three district associations. The Adriatic District is the largest of these, accounting for about 40% of Coop’s total sales. The unique characteristic of this type of organisational model is the high degree of autonomy enjoyed by each individual cooperative, deriving from its independent corporate structure, with no particular ownership constraints. In spite of this, it may still be beneficial to centralise a number of corporate functions, in order to obtain full benefits from economies of scale with regard to specific management policies. However, if this centralisation is not carefully calculated, it runs the risk of not yielding its full potential in terms of results.

The cooperatives in the Adriatic District have responded to these needs by establishing Centrale Adriatica, assigned the task of performing coordination, marketing and logistics functions. This has made it necessary to acquire management accounting tools capable of planning and controlling the decisions affecting the parameters which are governed at the centralised level, but the effects of which are inevitably felt by each individual cooperative.

The definition of selling and purchase price policies, promotion and advertising, and logistics management, form the starting-point for systems for the centralised planning and control of the trading margins of the individual cooperatives. By this mechanism, the cooperatives themselves implement a system of delegation of powers which places management of the main factors for the achievement of their strategic and financial objectives in Centrale Adriatica’s hands. The cooperatives continue to handle the acquisition of data and their communication to Centrale Adriatica, together with the planning and control of all the activities performed within the individual outlets, which are still managed entirely by the specific cooperative concerned.

Keywords: Performance measurement system, Management accounting, Planning and Controlling, Supermarket chain sector, Complexity

Suggested Citation:

Marchini, Pier Luigi and Lugli, Ennio, Performance Measurement Systems and Management Accounting in Supermarket Chain Sector: Analysis in an Italian Complex Business Entity (May 1, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1732535 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1732535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R N Anthony
Management Accounting Principles Posted: 1965
R N Anthony
Planning and Control Systems: A Framework to Analysis Posted: 1965
J A Brickley , C W Smith , J L Zimmerman
Managerial economics and organisational architecture Posted: 1997
W J Bruns , J H Waterhouse
Budgetary control and organisation structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 177 - 203 Posted: 1975
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
553
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,954
RANK
114,604
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Cross-Sectional Field Studies in Management Accounting Research - Closing the Gaps between Surveys and Case Studies

By Anne M. Lillis and Julia Mundy

Towards a More Comprehensive Understanding of the Roles of Management Accountants

By Sean M. Byrne and Bernard Pierce

Perceptions of Management Accounting Services

By Kenton B. Walker, Gary Fleischman, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies