Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dependent Auditor, the Three Party Arrangement, and Cost-Benefit Comparisons

4 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2011

George J. Staubus

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: December 31, 2010

Abstract

This short essay focuses on the costs and benefits accruing to each of the three parties to a conventional public company audit: company management, the auditor, and investors. Recognition of those costs and benefits leads to the conclusion that the auditor’s dependence on the goodwill of management makes it unlikely that an audit in such a setting will serve investors well.

Suggested Citation:

Staubus, George J., The Dependent Auditor, the Three Party Arrangement, and Cost-Benefit Comparisons (December 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1733236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1733236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies