Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What can Restatements Tell Us About Fair Value Reporting and the Financial Crisis of 2008?

34 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2011

Anthony H. Catanach

Villanova University - School of Business; The American College

Bob Kemp

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 1, 2010

Abstract

Several recent studies have empirically examined the claim that fair value accounting (FVA) contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. Most of this research relies on stock price and/or financial statement data from commercial banks to investigate the role played by FVA in this financial meltdown. To date, the consensus suggests that FVA played little or no role in the crisis. This study informs the FVA debate by examining a broader sample of financial institutions that includes banks, savings and loans, and insurance companies to determine if they experienced any difficulty implementing fair value reporting between 2007 and 2009. This research is based on the premise that (1) given the subjectivity inherent in valuing many financial instruments, there is a greater likelihood that financial institutions will make evaluation errors, and (2) such errors, if significant, will manifest themselves in restatements of previously filed financial reports. Consequently, an examination of financial institution restatements between 2007 and 2009 should provide some insights into the FVA debate. The results reveal few restatements for FVA issues and suggest that financial institutions experienced little or no difficulty with fair value reporting requirements. Instead, bank and insurance companies appear to struggle with operating cash flow classification and basic bookkeeping issues. This study’s findings should interest standard setters concerned about the ability of financial institutions to comply with recently proposed FVA standards for financial instruments. It also provides auditors and regulators with insights into the basic transaction processing deficiencies of financial institutions.

Keywords: fair value accounting, mark-to-market, restatements

JEL Classification: G21, G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Catanach, Anthony H. and Kemp, Bob, What can Restatements Tell Us About Fair Value Reporting and the Financial Crisis of 2008? (October 1, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1734490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
B A Badertscher , J J Burks , P D Easton
Fair value accouting, other-thantemporary-impairments, and the financial crisis Posted: 2010
W Buffett
Warren Buffett CNBC comments on mark-to-market Posted: 2009
S Das
Mark-to-make-believe: Part I -No accounting for the credit crisis Posted: 2009
L Deangelo
Auditor size and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Yi-Hung Lin , Steve Lin , James M. Fornaro , Hua-Wei Solomon Huang
Fair value measurement and accounting restatements
Advances in Accounting , volume 38 , p. 30 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,228
RANK
232,542
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies