Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Myth of Realization: Mark-to-Market Taxation of Publicly-Traded Securities

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 10, No. 5, p. 375, 2010

33 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2011 Last revised: 12 Jan 2011

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: August 18, 2010

Abstract

Legal rules and concepts ofttimes survive the situations that fostered their adoption. Developed as means to contend with certain conditions, they acquire a life of their own and are applied, out of habit or inertia, where there is no justification for their existence. Blindly applying those rules and concepts in situations other than those with which they were developed to contend can be counterproductive.

In the field of income tax, one of those rules and concepts is the doctrine of realization. Although a serious deviation from the pure concept of income, it was adopted as a means of contending with practical difficulties inherent in taxing appreciation of assets held by the taxpayer. However, it continues to be applied even in situations where there is no practical impediment to imposing tax on appreciation as it accrues. For example, gain from appreciation of publicly-traded securities could easily be taxed as those securities appreciate in value. However, so strong a grip does the doctrine of realization have on the minds both of policymakers and the public that the tax system tenaciously applies the realization doctrine to gain from publicly-held securities. The thesis of this Article is that, for purposes of income tax, publicly-traded securities should be marked to market, with gain or loss recognized as it accrues and not deferred until realization. This thesis is based both on a theoretical analysis of the realization doctrine and on the advantages in practice of taxing gain from publicly-traded securities as they accrue.

The realization doctrine, as applied to the capital markets, is the breeding ground for innumerable tax avoidance strategies. These strategies include straddles, constructive sales, and wash sales. Congress has attempted to confront these strategies by enacting specific legislative provision denying the sought-for tax advantage. The government may also rely on general anti-abuse principles. The Article argues that such attempts are ultimately ineffective. The simplest and most effective method – focusing on the underlying problem instead of on the symptoms – is to abandon the realization principle.

The realization doctrine – and specifically the ability of taxpayers to manipulate the doctrine through “selective realization” or “cherry picking” – has induced Congress to restrict the deduction of capital losses. The result is that taxpayers who have suffered capital losses are likely to have taxable income greater than their actual economic gain. The Article demonstrates that abandoning the realization doctrine would allow free deductibility of capital losses.

Keywords: tax, income tax, realization, mark to market, haig, simons, lock-in, liquidity, valuation, accrual, capital gain, stock market, tax planning, straddle, constructive sale, wash sale, cherry picking, losses, capital losses, deductibilty, deferral

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, The Myth of Realization: Mark-to-Market Taxation of Publicly-Traded Securities (August 18, 2010). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 10, No. 5, p. 375, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1734601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
See Richard , G Lipsey &amp; Kelvin , J Lancaster
The General Theory of the Second Best
Rev. of Econ. Stud , volume 11 Posted: 1956
See Weisbach
See Zelinsky
, p. 918 - 965
Crossref
See Jay Hausman
Labor Supply, How Taxes Affect Economic Behavior , volume 27 , p. 27 - 28 Posted: 1981
Load more
2 Citations
Charles Delmotte , Nick Cowen
The Mirage of Mark-to-Market: Distributive Justice and Alternatives to Capital Taxation
Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Forthcoming · 29 Pages · Posted: 18 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 6 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 121
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Savvas Kostikidis
Tackling corporate tax avoidance by taxing individuals in residence states
65 Pages · Posted: 22 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,027
RANK
252,723
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies