Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Emerging Role of Management Accountant in the Telecom Space

The Management Accountant, Forthcoming

7 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2011

Palanisamy Saravanan

Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Tiruchirappalli

Siva Sankararan

Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Shillong

Date Written: January 9, 2011

Abstract

As per the most recent IMF reports, the real GDP of the country is projected to grow by an impressive 9.7% in 2010-11, as compared to an estimated 7.2% in 2009-10. Apart from the manufacturing sector the trade, hotel, transport and communication segment of the services sectors are likely to be the major drivers of this growth. Amongst the service sector, the Indian telecom market has emerged as one of the fastest growing markets in the world. Experts in the telecom space estimate that India holds the promise of becoming the second largest telecom market of the world. The various reforms introduced by successive Indian governments over the last decade have dramatically changed the nature of telecommunications in the country. This article focuses some of the current issues in the telecommunications industry and depicts the role of the management accountant in the rapidly evolving telecom environment.

Keywords: Telecom Industry, Management Accountants, India

JEL Classification: G30, G38

Suggested Citation:

Saravanan, Palanisamy and Sankararan, Siva, Emerging Role of Management Accountant in the Telecom Space (January 9, 2011). The Management Accountant, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1737448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,123
RANK
183,540
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: National Income & Product Accounts eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies