Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Team Defence Mechanisms: Auditee Influence

Accounting and Business Research, September 2011

37 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2011

Breda Sweeney

National University of Ireland, Galway - Accountancy & Finance

Bernard Pierce

Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: January 10, 2011

Abstract

This study examines the perceived ability of auditees to influence external auditor controls and audit team behaviour (through, for example, delaying the availability of information and selecting samples in advance for auditors). Semi-structured interviews were carried out with 18 auditee staff from seven publicly listed companies who interacted on an ongoing basis with the audit team. The findings give an external perspective on weaknesses in auditors’ control systems and suggest that game playing occurs between auditee and auditor staff in coping with conflicts that arise during audit fieldwork. These constitute a form of inter-organisational defence mechanism (coping mechanisms employed by individuals in organisations to avoid embarrassment and threat).

Furthermore, the findings reveal previously unidentified auditee-related variables that can impact on the effectiveness of the auditor’s control system. A number of implications of the findings for audit firms and society are identified, such as the level of trust placed by society in inexperienced time-pressured audit trainees, societal expectations of auditors and the need to reduce the predictability of audit testing.

Keywords: auditor client interaction, auditor control system, defence mechanisms, dysfunctional auditor behaviour

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Sweeney, Breda and Pierce, Bernard, Audit Team Defence Mechanisms: Auditee Influence (January 10, 2011). Accounting and Business Research, September 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1737665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget …": the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Apb
Auditor scepticism: raising the bar. Discussion paper Posted: 2010-08
C Argyris
The dilemma of implementing controls: the case of managerial accounting. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 15 , p. 503 - 511 Posted: 1990
Crossref
C Argyris
Overcoming organizational defenses. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn and Bacon. Audit and Assurance Faculty Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
248,130
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webtrust Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webstrust E-Commerce Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

The Construction of Auditability: MBA Rankings and Assurance in Practice

By Clinton Free, Steven Salterio, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies