Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis and Valuation of Insurance Companies

CE|ASA (Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis) Industry Study No. 2

182 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2011 Last revised: 16 Jan 2011

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: November 30, 2010

Abstract

During 2008 and 2009, the insurance industry experienced unprecedented volatility. The large swings in insurers’ market valuations, and the significant role that financial reporting played in the uncertainty surrounding insurance companies during that period, highlight the importance of understanding insurers’ financial information and its implications for the risk and value of insurance companies. To facilitate an informed use of insurers’ financial reports, this manuscript reviews the accounting practices of insurance companies, discusses the financial analysis and valuation of insurers, summarizes relevant insights from academic research, and provides related empirical evidence.

The paper contains three sections. The first section describes the insurance business, including activities and organization of insurance companies, products and services, distribution channels, competition, regulation, taxation, and risks and risk management. The second section discusses how insurance activities are reflected in financial reports. Specifically, for each key line item from insurers’ financial statements, the study provides evidence on the economic significance of the item, reviews the related US accounting principles, discusses earnings quality issues, describes analyses and red flags that inform on the item’s quality, reviews selected research findings, and describes the primary differences between International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and US GAAP.

Building on the discussion and analyses in the previous two sections, the third section addresses the valuation of insurance companies. The section starts by discussing the primary drivers of insurers’ intrinsic value, including profitability, growth prospects and cost of equity capital, as well as accounting quality indicators that inform on the reliability of the measured drivers. It then describes relative and fundamental valuation models that translate those fundamentals into value estimates. Finally, in the context of fundamental valuation models, the study presents a template for forecasting the key financial statement line items of insurance companies.

Keywords: Insurance, valuation, accounting, earnings quality, risk management

Suggested Citation:

Nissim, Doron, Analysis and Valuation of Insurance Companies (November 30, 2010). CE|ASA (Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis) Industry Study No. 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1739204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1739204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
220 References
P M Achleitner , J H D Biebel , Wichels
Does WTC matter for the investment policy of P/C insurance companies? Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance -Issues & Practice , volume 27 , p. 275 - 284 Posted: 2002
M Adams , P Hardwick , H Zou
Reinsurance and corporate taxation in the United Kingdom life insurance industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Adiel
Reinsurance and the management of regulatory ratios and taxes in the propertycasualty insurance industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 207 - 240 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Akhigbe , J Madura
Intra-industry signals resulting from insurance company mergers
The Journal of Risk and Insurance , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 489 - 506 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
17 Citations
Stefano de Nichilo
Implications of IFRS 17 in European financial stability: accounting methodology and evaluation modelling
Risk Management Magazine , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 4 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Andrea Molent
TAXATION OF A GMWB VARIABLE ANNUITY IN A STOCHASTIC INTEREST RATE MODEL
ASTIN Bulletin , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 1001 Posted: 2020
Crossref
BO BECKER , VICTORIA IVASHINA
Reaching for Yield in the Bond Market
The Journal of Finance , volume 70 , issue 5 , p. 1863 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Marc A. Ragin , Jianren Xu
An Ex Post Assessment of Investor Response to Catastrophes
North American Actuarial Journal , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 250 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,557
ABSTRACT VIEWS
17,597
RANK
4,912
17 Citations
220 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Relative Valuation of U.S. Insurance Companies

By Doron Nissim

Reaching for Yield in the Bond Market

By Bo Becker and Victoria Ivashina

Reaching for Yield in the Bond Market

By Bo Becker and Victoria Ivashina

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies