Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence in Appearance: An Examination of Perception Differences between Accountants and Non-Accountants

CAAA Annual Conference 2011

29 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2011

Hossein Nouri

The College of New Jersey

Sunita Ahlawat

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 14, 2011

Abstract

Using non-accounting business students as a proxy for general public and senior accounting students as a proxy for accounting professionals, this study investigates the effect of ten different independent scenarios dealing with auditors’ appearance of independence on the chance that the auditor will not report a material misstatement in the financial statements. The results show that there are significant difference between accounting and non-accounting respondents when the auditor has a material direct financial interest in the client, when the auditor’s family members have a material direct financial interest in the client, when the auditor’s next of kin has a key position in the client, or when the auditor receives a more favorable loan term from a car dealer through the client arrangement. We did not find any differences between male and female respondents with respect to their perceptions of the ten scenarios in this study.

Keywords: Appearence of Independence, Accountants vs non-accountants

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nouri, Hossein and Ahlawat, Sunita, Auditor Independence in Appearance: An Examination of Perception Differences between Accountants and Non-Accountants (January 14, 2011). CAAA Annual Conference 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1740645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1740645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
E C Ameen , D M Guffey , J J Mcmillan
Gender Differences in Determining the Ethical Sensitivity of Future Accounting Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 15 , p. 591 - 597 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R Bartlett
A scale of perceived independence: New evidence on an old concept
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 52 - 67 Posted: 1993
Crossref
D R Carmichael
In search of concepts of auditor independence
The CPA Journal , volume 69 , issue 5 , p. 38 - 43 Posted: 1999
J R Cohen , L W Pant , D J Sharp
An Examination of Differences in Ethical-Decision Making Between Canadian Business Students and Accounting Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 319 - 336 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
616
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,912
RANK
99,786
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies