Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case of Sustainability Assurance: Constructing a New Assurance Service

55 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2011

Brendan O'Dwyer

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Date Written: January 18, 2011

Abstract

This paper presents an in-depth longitudinal case study examining the processes through which practitioners in two Big 4 professional services firms have attempted to construct sustainability assurance (independent assurance on sustainability reports). Power’s (2003, 1999, 1997, 1996) theorization of the way in which new subject areas are made auditable is used to frame the findings. The case reveals the fragile nature of efforts to innovate with assurance and render sustainability reporting auditable. Practitioners are shown to experience considerable discomfort and conflict in their attempts to construct a stable and legitimate knowledge base for assurance practice. Tacit knowledge embedded in highly subjective assessments of evidence is frequently enrolled to make assurance possible in the presence of vague guidance from assurance standards. In light of ongoing practitioner struggles, both firms have publicly acknowledged the limitations of traditional financial audit practice operating alone in the conduct of sustainability assurance. In order to offset these limitations, they propose a coupling of “expert” stakeholder assessments of reporting completeness with traditional audit assessments of data reliability. This assigns part of the responsibility for delivering on a key assurance objective (reporting completeness) to what some practitioners perceive as questionable stakeholder expertise. Overall, the findings suggest that innovation in new assurance practices may be stifled by an exclusive reliance on financial audit training and techniques and by certain constraints imposed by internal professional firm control procedures.

Keywords: sustainability, sustainability assurance, audit, sustainability reports

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

O'Dwyer, Brendan, The Case of Sustainability Assurance: Constructing a New Assurance Service (January 18, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1742826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
Accountability
AA1000 Framework: Standard, Guidelines and Professional Qualification Posted: 1999
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standard. London: AccountAbility Posted: 2003
Accountability
AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2008-12
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) AccountAbility, and KPMG. 2004. The Future of Sustainability Assurance
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
815
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,307
RANK
69,326
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webtrust Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webstrust E-Commerce Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

The Construction of Auditability: MBA Rankings and Assurance in Practice

By Clinton Free, Steven Salterio, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies