Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Audit of the Operational Stage of Long Term Partnerships for the Private Sector Provision of Public Services

12 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2011

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Linda M. English

University of Sydney Business School

Richard Laughlin

University of London, King's College London - Department of Management

Jane Broadbent

University of London, Royal Holloway

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This study investigates the challenges associated with designing a system to evaluate the mature operating phase of long-term partnerships with the private sector for the provision of public services (PPPS), an area largely neglected by a performance audit (PA) focus. It argues that assessing economy, efficiency and effectiveness (the three Es) are key to any PA, but that their nature is contextually defined; that auditing for effectiveness involves going beyond a ‘watchdog’ to a ‘sheepdog’ role; and that internal evaluation procedures provide insights that are necessary, but not necessary and sufficient to evaluating the achievement of the three Es in the PPPS mature operating stage. Findings are based on an analysis of the literature and an engagement with an audit office. The paper elucidates the meaning of each of the three Es in the context of PA of the PPPS mature operating stage.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, James and English, Linda M. and Laughlin, Richard and Broadbent, Jane, Performance Audit of the Operational Stage of Long Term Partnerships for the Private Sector Provision of Public Services (2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1742169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
T Abma , J C Greene , O Karlsson , K Ryan , T A Schwandt , A M Widdershoven
Evaluation , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 164 - 80 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3500 Performance Engagements, Pearson Education Australia and CPA Australia Posted: 2008
Australian National Audit Office (ANAO) 2007, Developing and Managing Contracts: Getting the Right Outcome, Paying the Right Price, Better Practice Guide, Australian Government Department of Finance and Administration and the Australian National Audit Office
Australian Government Department of Finance and Administration and the Australian National Audit Office Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,656
RANK
123,946
3 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies