Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Framework in the Draft of the Swiss Accounting Statutes (Das Rahmenkonzept des Rechnungslegungsrechtsentwurfes)

Schweizerische Zeitschrift für Wirtschafts - und Finanzmarktrecht, Vol. 80, pp. 400-412, 2008

13 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2011

Lukas Mueller

University of St. Gallen; University of Fribourg - Faculty of Law; University of Zurich - Rechtswissenschaftliches Institut (School of Law)

Date Written: July 1, 2008

Abstract

Just before the end of 2007, the draft on a financial accounting and reporting framework has been published. The framework will be implemented in the Swiss Code of Obligations. For the first time, terms like "assets", "liabilities" and "equity" will be defined in Swiss Law and every entity in Swiss Corporations Law shall be obliged to present true and fair. However, the draft law raises some issues connected to the handling of the framework. The differentiation of equity and liabilities could be inadequate for some business partnerships and cooperative societies. Furthermore, these draft rules for the accounting on stock options and the measurement of fixed assets after recognition should be revised in order to eliminate loopholes in the accounting code. This article provides possible solutions for the mentioned weaknesses in the proposed draft of the new Swiss Code of Obligations.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: asstes, liabilities, equity, Swiss Code of Obligations, International Financial Reporting Standards, Swiss Corporations Law

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mueller, Lukas, The Accounting Framework in the Draft of the Swiss Accounting Statutes (Das Rahmenkonzept des Rechnungslegungsrechtsentwurfes) (July 1, 2008). Schweizerische Zeitschrift für Wirtschafts - und Finanzmarktrecht, Vol. 80, pp. 400-412, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1743763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
150,292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Legislation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies