Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Debt-Equity Distinction

Banking and Finance Law Review, Vol. 26

22 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Robert Flannigan

University of Saskatchewan

Date Written: January 20, 2011

Abstract

The distinction between debt and equity often is crucially important. Yet some doubt that there is a distinction of kind, or that the distinction is certain. My objective is to illuminate the conventional view of the difference – the imparity between fixed and contingent participation – and address the main challenges it has encountered. I first describe the common law and statutory developments that crystallized the distinction. I then review the entangled criticisms: that debt and equity are functionally equivalent or that the difference between them is fatally uncertain. Finally, I briefly consider the utility of the distinction in specific contexts.

Keywords: Debt, Equity, Debt-Equity, Finance, Finance Theory, Capital Structure Irrelevance Principle, Trade-Off Theory, Pecking Order, Free Cash Flow, Option, Tax, Factors, Functional Equivalence, Profit-Sharing, Debt-Equity Ratio, Contingency, Viability Risk, Default Risk, Insolvency Risk, Preference Share

Suggested Citation:

Flannigan, Robert, The Debt-Equity Distinction (January 20, 2011). Banking and Finance Law Review, Vol. 26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1744140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
See Edgar
32 at 5 (distinguishing "financial instruments" (derivatives) from "financing transactions" (capital-raising transactions)) and 27-29 (describing the risk management function)
See the materials supra, n. 32. Consider the legal treatment of retractable preference shares
See Central Capital Corp , volume 494 Posted: 1996
D L R
4th) 223, (sub nom. Royal Bank v. Central Capital Corp.) 88 O.A.C , volume 161
C B R
3d) 1, 26 B.L.R. (2d) 88 (Ont. C.A.); Ford Credit Canada Ltd
CarswellNat , volume 3206 Posted: 1567
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,931
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,882
RANK
19,701
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies