Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Educational Diversity in Investor Relations

Corporate Communications: An International Journal, Vol. 16, Issue 4, pp. 311-327

28 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2011 Last revised: 11 Nov 2011

Arvid O. I. Hoffmann

University of Adelaide - Business School

Aida Tutic

Maastricht University

Simone Wies

Leibniz Institute for Financial Research SAFE

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This paper shows the role of educational diversity on investor relations quality and the impact of the latter on the number of shareholder activism incidents a firm encounters. We review literature on marketing, finance, and corporate communications to develop a conceptual framework which we test using a combination of secondary data and primary data collected through a survey and interviews amongst investor relations professionals. The empirical results support the conceptual framework, showing higher investor relations quality levels and lower shareholder activism intensity for companies with educational diverse investor relations teams. In particular the presence of marketing and communication experts in investor relations teams contributes to higher investor relations quality and reduced shareholder activism.

Keywords: Investor Relations, Educational Diversity, Marketing-Finance Interface, Shareholder Activism

JEL Classification: G30, L14, M31

Suggested Citation:

Hoffmann, Arvid O. I. and Tutic, Aida and Wies, Simone, The Role of Educational Diversity in Investor Relations (2011). Corporate Communications: An International Journal, Vol. 16, Issue 4, pp. 311-327, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1749534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
ABAF -BVFA: Belgian Association of Financial Analysts
ABAF Posted: 2010-09
R Ackoff
Re-creating the Corporation: A Design of Organizations for the 21st Century Posted: 1999
C E Allen
Building mountains in a flat landscape: investor relations in the postEnron era
Corporate Communications: An International Journal , volume 7 , issue 4 , p. 206 - 211 Posted: 2002
Crossref
D Ancona , D Caldwell
Demography and design: Predictors of new product team performance
Organization Science , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 341 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,679
RANK
439,313
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Shareholder Initiatives: Empirical Evidence

By Jonathan M. Karpoff, Paul H. Malatesta, ...

Shareholder Passivity Reexamined

By Bernard S. Black

The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of Empirical Findings

By Jonathan M. Karpoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies