Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Establishing a Baseline for Assessing the Frequency of Auditors’ Comments Concerning Perceived Client Integrity

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 24, No. 1, p. 4, 2009

Posted: 31 Jan 2011

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Purpose - The research examines whether comments made by Big-6 auditors about their post-audit perceptions of the client’s integrity were influenced by their firm’s rating of the client’s integrity prior to the start of the current audit.

Design/methodology/approach - The research uses an established fraud detection case study with a manipulation of client integrity. The participants include 152 managers and 342 seniors from five of the then Big-Six firms.

Findings - The research indicates that auditors were insensitive to client integrity ratings in the audit planning/risk assessment stage of the audit.

Practical implications - The very foundation of corporate governance and the value of the audit are weakened when client integrity is questionable and may not result in implementing more rigorous audit procedures suggested by Mautz and Sharaf (1961).

Originality/value - The reason for this research is that the existent literature cannot be used to determine whether or not Auditing Standards enacted since 1991 have had any effect on the practice of auditing in this area. Consequently, this research contributes to the literature by establishing a 1991 (i.e., before SAS 82) baseline for evaluation purposes.

Keywords: lient Integrity, Audit Work Papers

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A., Establishing a Baseline for Assessing the Frequency of Auditors’ Comments Concerning Perceived Client Integrity (2009). Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 24, No. 1, p. 4, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752270
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,136
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies