Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Women Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility

Electronic Journal of Business Ethics and Organizational Studies, Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 15-21, 2010

Posted: 31 Jan 2011

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Veronica H. Threadgill

Roger Williams University

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

The successes and failures of organizations are contingent on the decisions of senior management and its board of directors. Personality and experiences may have a tangible effect on the decision making process. This study assesses whether or not gender has a tangible effect on an organization’s decisions. A sample of Fortune 500 companies were examined to determine whether companies with a higher proportion of women on their boards of directors are more socially responsible. In general, a diversity of people generates a diverse set of opinions that impacts and improves the decision-making process. Our expectation was that gender diversity will increase socially responsible behavior by a corporation. The results of this study confirm our research question; an association was found between the number of female directors on a corporate board and the incidence of corporate social behavior including: charitable giving, community involvement, and outside recognition of employee benefits.

Keywords: Female Directors, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Bernardi, Richard A. and Threadgill, Veronica H., Women Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility (December 1, 2010). Electronic Journal of Business Ethics and Organizational Studies, Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 15-21, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752267
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies