Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors’ Organizational Form, Legal Liability and Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from China

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

2 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2011

Michael Firth

Lingnan University - Department of Finance and Insurance

Phyllis L.L. Mo

Lingnan University

Raymond M. K. Wong

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 14, 2010

Abstract

This study uses a unique institutional setting in China to investigate empirically the association between the organizational form of CPA firms (unlimited liability versus limited liability) and the reporting conservatism of auditors. Based on a sample of 5,007 audits of Chinese listed companies from the period of 2000 to 2004, we find that auditors in unlimited liability partnership firms are more likely to issue modified audit opinions than are auditors in limited liability CPA firms. This auditor conservatism stems from distressed firms with going-concern opinions, and we find no statistical evidence that partnerships give more modified opinions for non-distressed firms. In addition, auditors are less likely to issue modified reports after they incorporated the firm in the limited liability form. These analyses support our hypothesis that a limited liability regime induces lower auditor reporting conservatism. Our study contributes to the broader debate on liability reform in the auditing profession.

Keywords: Auditor reporting conservatism, Auditor’s legal liability, Modified and going-concern audit opinions, Organizational form

JEL Classification: M42, L2

Suggested Citation:

Firth, Michael and Mo, Phyllis L.L. and Wong, Raymond M. K., Auditors’ Organizational Form, Legal Liability and Reporting Conservatism: Evidence from China (November 14, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1752787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,774
RANK
169,120
27 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies