Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Business Advice of an External Accountant Improve the Performance of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises

Posted: 3 Feb 2011

Peter John Carey

Monash University

Date Written: February 3, 2011

Abstract

Accountants in public practice are the main advisors to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). SMEs use external accountants primarily to help fulfil regulatory requirements or satisfy contractual constraints (e.g., taxation, compilation and audit), but there is evidence that SMEs also rely on the business advice of their external accountant for support in managing the firm. This study provides empirical evidence as to the value of business advice by analysing whether SMEs buying advice from their external accountant demonstrate superior performance. This area of research is important because the accounting profession continues to promote the expertise of external accountants as business advisors in the absence of empirical support for this strategy. Data collected using a questionnaire survey of Australian SMEs confirms the predicted positive relation between the purchase of business advice and SME performance, where performance is measured using SME survey respondents’ rating of their own performance relative to competitors on a range of financial and non-financial success factors. SME performance is found to be further enhanced when business advice and auditing are jointly purchased, which suggests knowledge ‘spillovers’ from auditing to business advice. Additional analysis reveals that these relations are concentrated in the small businesses subgroup (5-49 employees), consistent with smaller firms having a narrower resource base and thus a greater need to source business advice from their external accountant.

Keywords: SME, Business Advice, Auditing, Performance

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Carey, Peter John, Does the Business Advice of an External Accountant Improve the Performance of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (February 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1754305
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies