Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Problem of Pre-Tax Valuations: A Note

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 10-13, 2010

Monash U. Department of Business Law & Taxation Research Paper No. 1755324

11 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2011

Michael J. Dempsey

Ton Duc Thang University (TDTU)

Michael D. McKenzie

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Finance; University of Cambridge - Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance (CERF); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Graham Partington

University of Sydney - School of Business - Finance Discipline; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper highlights the problems in valuation that are inherent in the use of the pre-tax cost of capital and in other tax adjustments to the discount rate. The source of problems in relation to the pre-tax discount rate is clarified and examples are given to highlight the nature of the problems. Finally, a solution is provided that overcomes these problems. However, it is recommended that pre-tax valuations are best avoided.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Discount Rates

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dempsey, Michael J. and McKenzie, Michael David and Partington, Graham, The Problem of Pre-Tax Valuations: A Note (December 1, 2010). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 10-13, 2010 , Monash U. Department of Business Law & Taxation Research Paper No. 1755324, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1755324
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Frino , Z &amp; Chen , Hill
Introduction to Corporate Finance Posted: 2009
W Lonergan
Pre and Post-tax Discount Rates and Cash Flows -A Technical Note
The Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 45 Posted: 2009
R Officer
The Cost of Capital of a Company under an Imputation Tax System
Accounting and Finance , volume 31 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J &amp; Jindra , Voetmann
Discussion of the Pre and Post-tax Discount Rates and Cash Flows -A Technical Note
The Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
330
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,565
RANK
208,831
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies