Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Rates are Better than Others

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 14-25, 2010

19 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2011

Kaiying Ji

University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: December 1, 2010

Abstract

Within the growing literature on goodwill impairment testing under the IFRS framework, the topic of discount rate selection choice by reporting entities has been particularly controversial. Some previous researchers, notably Carlin & Finch (2009) have argued that there is credible evidence to sustain the proposition that a non-trivial number of firms reporting under IFRS have applied indefensibly low discount rates when testing for impairment. Other scholars (for example, Gallery, 2009) have suggested that an insufficient quantity of evidence has accumulated to this point to sustain such a proposition with adequate confidence. This paper contributes to the literature by reviewing an extended data set on discount rate selection choice by ASX-listed firms. It concludes that the incidence of the application of unusual or ‘out of expectations’ discount rates is a continued and persistent feature of the Australian financial reporting landscape and that for a significant number of firms, variations between expected and actual applied discount rates remain material.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, Discount Rates

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ji, Kaiying, Some Rates are Better than Others (December 1, 2010). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 14-25, 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1755326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Franck Bancel , Usha R. Mittoo
The Determinants of Capital Structure Choice: A Survey of European Firms
AFA 2003 Washington, DC Meetings; EFMA 2002 London Meetings Pages: 34 Posted: 2 Feb 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Boyd
Adjusting the Risk Free Rate', Business Spectator Posted: 2009-01-30
Bradbury
Commentary: Discount Rates in Disarray: Evidence on Flawed Goodwill Impairment Testing
Australian Accounting Review , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 313 - 316
Crossref
T Brailsford , Jc &amp; Handley , K Maheswaren
Re-examination of the Historical Equity Risk Premium in Australia
Accounting and Finance , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 97 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Cenap Ilter
Exploring the Risks of Overstatements and Understatements in Financial Reporting Due to Inflation and Devaluation Gaps
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 13-22, 2012 · 18 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2012 · Downloads: 305
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
386,928
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies