Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for Local Fair Value Discount Rates Under IFRS

14 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2011

Laurens Swinkels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR); Robeco Asset Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2011

Abstract

In the Netherlands, listed companies and their pension funds have to apply the principle of fair value accounting with respect to valuation of pension liabilities for their financial statements. Both entities have to implement fair value accounting somewhat differently, as companies have to apply IFRS (IAS 19) and pension funds are required to follow Dutch financial reporting standards (RJ 271). During the financial crisis it appeared that the pension funding status for companies improved substantially, while at the same time their pension funds reported huge solvency problems. This lead to the surprising situation that several companies were required to make additional cash contributions to their pension fund, while their own annual report showed a large pension surplus. To avoid such inconsistencies in the future, we propose that IFRS adopts local fair value discount rates for nominal accrued pension liabilities.

Keywords: Accounting, Discount Rate, Fair Value, IFRS, Pension Accounting, Pension Fund

JEL Classification: G23, G28, M41

Suggested Citation:

Swinkels, Laurens, The Case for Local Fair Value Discount Rates Under IFRS (February 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1762291 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1762291
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
E Amir , Y Guan , Oswald , D
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Z Bodie
The ABO, PBO, and pension investment policy
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 27 - 34 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Brigden , A Clare , R Driver , M Selvaggi
The road to buy-out
Pensions , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 90 - 110 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Byrne , N Winter
Living with longevity , volume 14 , p. 115 - 127 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,526
RANK
264,566
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies