Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Monopoly: The Pied Piper of Financial Reporting

Yale SOM Working Paper

56 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2011

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 17, 2011

Abstract

The links among better financial reporting, better markets, and better economy and society are arguable, but they remain poorly understood. The addition of IFRS to the set of available alternatives may improve these linkages, but granting them monopoly status does not. Claims that the universal adoption of IFRS as a single set of high-quality principles-based standards will yield global comparability are overblown. Accounting standards operate less like a uniform system of weights and measures and more like a single currency, in that both play multiple roles in modern economies. An IFRS monopoly is evolutionarily disadvantageous in that it eliminates the opportunity to compare alternative practices and learn from them. It also disallows the tailoring of financial reporting to local variations in economic, business, commercial, legal, auditing, regulatory, and governance conditions across the globe. Empirical studies of statistical covariation across financial reports produced by IFRS have yielded mixed results and, in any case, provide little insight as to the merits of granting IFRS a world monopoly. The vociferous campaign in support of IFRS monopoly is reminiscent of the 1990s campaign in support of the now-discredited “Washington Consensus.” Then, as now, it was a case of promoting theoretical benefits while obscuring potential costs and risks. This is the familiar story of the pied piper leading his trusting victims to their doom.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, Accounting, Monopoly, Disadvantages, Risks

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, IFRS Monopoly: The Pied Piper of Financial Reporting (February 17, 2011). Yale SOM Working Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1763311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C Frost , E Henry , S Lin
Response to the U.S. Securities and Exchange's Proposed Rule: Roadmap for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. Issuers
Journal of International Accounting Research , volume 8 , p. 61 - 85 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Joachim Gassen , Thorsten Sellhorn
Applying IFRS in Germany: Determinants and Consequences
Pages: 38 Posted: 7 Jun 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
I Goncharov
Earnings management and its determinants: closing gaps in empirical accounting research Posted: 2005
Luzi Hail , Christian Leuz , Peter Wysocki
Global Accounting Convergence and the Potential Adoption of IFRS by the U.S. (Part I): Conceptual Underpinnings and Economic Analysis
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 355 - 394 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,881
RANK
44,428
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

New Game Plan or Business as Usual? A Critique of the Team Production Model of Corporate Law

By David Millon

New Game Plan or Business as Usual? A Critique of the Team Production Model of Corporate Law

By David Millon

A New Approach to Fiduciary Duties and Employees: Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy

By Daniele Marchesani

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies