Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2010

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 10, No. 9, p. 569, 2011

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 2011-05

199 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2011

Martin J. McMahon, Jr.

University of Florida - Levin College of Law

Ira B. Shepard

University of Houston Law Center

Daniel L. Simmons

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Abstract

This recent developments article discusses, and provides context to understand the significance of, the most important tax legislation, judicial decisions and administrative rulings and regulations promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Department during the year 2010. The article focuses primarily on topics of broad general interest – income tax accounting rules, determination of gross income, allowable deductions, treatment of capital gains and losses, corporate and partnership taxation, exempt organizations, and procedure and penalties. It deals summarily with qualified pension and profit sharing plans, and generally does not deal with international taxation or specialized industries, such as banking, insurance, and financial services.

Suggested Citation:

McMahon, Jr., Martin James and Shepard, Ira B. and Simmons, Daniel L., Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2010. Florida Tax Review, Vol. 10, No. 9, p. 569, 2011, University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 2011-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1763295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,972
RANK
129,393
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies