Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Marketing Activities: Implications for Marketing Research and Practice

50 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2011 Last revised: 21 Jun 2011

Natalie Mizik

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill; University of Washington

Doron Nissim

Columbia University - Columbia Business School

Date Written: May 5, 2011

Abstract

We review accounting principles related to the reporting of marketing activities and evaluate their implications for marketing research and practice. Based on our review, we argue that current accounting practices contribute significantly to the declining influence of marketing within organizations and the rise of myopic management. Financial reports misrepresent marketing contribution and impede its fair assessment. Changes to current marketing accounting practices are needed. Balance sheet recognition of all marketing-related intangibles emerged as the prevailing proposed solution. We, however, argue that balance sheet recognition of marketing intangibles will not remedy the situation. Instead, we advocate expanded mandatory disclosure of marketing-related activities and performance drivers. We advance specific propositions intended to enhance the quality of financial reporting and improve marketing management practice. We further call for specific research to help facilitate improvements in the financial reporting model as it pertains to marketing-related activities.

Keywords: Internally Developed Intangible Assets, Acquired Intangible Assets, Marketing Accounting, Marketing Practice

JEL Classification: M10, M30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Mizik, Natalie and Mizik, Natalie and Nissim, Doron, Accounting for Marketing Activities: Implications for Marketing Research and Practice (May 5, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1768382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1768382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
David A Aaker
Managing Brand Equity Posted: 1991
D Aboody , Baruch Lev
Information Asymmetry, R&D, and Insider Gains
Journal of Finance , volume 55 , p. 747 - 766 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Alan S Dunk , Hossein Nouri
Antecedents of budgetary slack: A literature review and synthesis
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 17 , p. 72 - 96 Posted: 1998
Tim Ambler
Marketing and the Bottom Line: The Marketing Metrics to Pump Up Cash Flow Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
941
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,702
RANK
56,921
5 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Marketing and Firm Value: Metrics, Methods, Findings, and Future Directions

By Shuba Srinivasan and Dominique M Hanssens

Consumer Negative Voice and Firm-Idiosyncratic Stock Returns

By Xueming Luo

Retail-Price Drivers and Retailer Profits

By Vincent R. Nijs, Shuba Srinivasan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies