Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement System of Family Farm Economic Revenue

GENERAL ACCOUNTING THEORY - EVOLUTION AND DESIGN FOR EFFICIENCY, I. Górowski, ed., WAiP, Warsaw 2008

Posted: 6 Mar 2011 Last revised: 22 Mar 2011

Małgorzata Kucharczyk

Kozminski University

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Family farms are treated by the market as if they were enterprises like all other. Consequently, they need reliable information about their economic results. The information about their economic and financial standing can be provided by accounting. Thus, family farms are in need of an accounting system suited to their needs. Such as system should conform to the main principle of accounting, true and fair view, but also provide additional information pertaining to the farm and to the household.

This paper presents a model for family farm accounting, which is an attempt to reconcile theoretical concepts of accounting with the needs and abilities of family farms. The paper contains a description of the system and of how the system provides information about economic results and additional information needed for efficient management of the transformation of biological assets, and how it helps account for the value of labour expended by the farmer and his family.

Keywords: family farm, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Kucharczyk, Małgorzata, Measurement System of Family Farm Economic Revenue (2008). GENERAL ACCOUNTING THEORY - EVOLUTION AND DESIGN FOR EFFICIENCY, I. Górowski, ed., WAiP, Warsaw 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1774687
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies