Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Formula to Calculate the Cost of Executive Stock Options

35 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2011

Ashay Kadam

Goa Institute of Management

Yan Li

Korea University Business School

Anand Srinivasan

National University of Singapore - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 9, 2010

Abstract

We derive a simple formula for the cost of the ESO to the firm at the grant date under the assumption that the executive has a constant market-to-strike multiple. The market-to-strike multiple is defined as the ratio of the market price on exercise to the strike price of the ESO. The expected value of this multiple is the only input that needs to be estimated for calculating ESO cost using our formula (hence-forth, KLS formula). Using a large data set of insider trades, we find that the KLS formula has a lower prediction error relative to the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) formula. We also find that the error due to the assumption of a constant market-to-strike multiple is quite small. Further, our model generally leads to negative prediction errors whereas the BSM model generally has positive prediction errors. A composite estimate of ESO costs using the average of both methods (KLS and BSM) proves much better than either method individually.

Keywords: Executive Stock Options, Executive Compensation, Accounting Cost

JEL Classification: C61, G13, G30, J33, M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kadam, Ashay and Li, Yan and Srinivasan, Anand, A Simple Formula to Calculate the Cost of Executive Stock Options (August 9, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1777038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1777038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,865
RANK
294,906
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies