Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Insurance Law and Policy to Interpret the Tax Code’s Loss and Medical Expense Provisions

Yale Law & Policy Review, Vol. 26, p. 309, 2007

36 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2011

Andrew Blair-Stanek

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Prior scholarship recognized that I.R.C. § 165 (allowing a deduction for casualty losses) and I.R.C. § 165 (authorizing a deduction for medical expenses) are a free partial insurance scheme, providing tax benefits that partially offset the losses or medical expenses. Courts have long wrestled with determining eligibility for these deductions. This Note proposes that courts should look to the well-developed body of insurance case law to interpret eligibility for these deductions. It further proposed that the government, which effectively acts as an insurer via these deductions, could raise additional revenue using subrogation, which traditional insurers have long used to partially recoup payouts.

Keywords: tax, taxation, insurance, deductions, casualty loss, medical expense

Suggested Citation:

Blair-Stanek, Andrew, Using Insurance Law and Policy to Interpret the Tax Code’s Loss and Medical Expense Provisions (2007). Yale Law & Policy Review, Vol. 26, p. 309, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1778191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
I R C
, volume 5 Posted: 2000
Id
213(d) (I)
Id
, volume 5
Crossref
Revenue Act of 1867
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,910
RANK
772,528
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies