Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can a Transaction Tax or Capital Gains Tax Smooth House Prices?

41 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2011 Last revised: 2 Oct 2012

Nicole Aregger

University of Bern - Department of Economics

Martin Brown

Swiss National Bank - Study Center Gerzensee; University of St. Gallen

Enzo Rossi

Swiss National Bank; University of Zurich

Date Written: September 19, 2012

Abstract

Motivated by the search for instruments to contain future housing bubbles, we examine the impact of transaction taxes and capital gains taxes on residential house price growth. We exploit the variation in taxation across Swiss cantons, as well as within-canton changes in taxation over time. We relate these taxes to house price growth observed for 92 regions of the country during the period 1985 – 2009. Our results suggest that higher taxes on capital gains exacerbate house price dynamics while transaction taxes have no impact on house price growth. These findings support the existence of a lock-in effect of capital gains taxes on housing supply and suggest that capital gains taxes on real estate are not suitable measures to prevent excessive house price growth.

Keywords: House prices, Transaction tax, Capital gains tax, Macroprudential policy

JEL Classification: E32, H24, R21

Suggested Citation:

Aregger, Nicole and Brown, Martin and Rossi, Enzo, Can a Transaction Tax or Capital Gains Tax Smooth House Prices? (September 19, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1780826 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1780826
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A G Ahearne , J Ammer , B M Doyle , L S Kole , R F Martin
House Prices and Monetary Policy: A Cross-Country Study. International Finance Discussion Papers 841. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Posted: 2005
Bank , England
The role of macroprudential policy. A Discussion Paper Posted: 2009-11
W T Bogart , W M Gentry
Capital Gains Taxes and Realizations: Evidence from Interstate Comparisons
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 77 , issue 2 , p. 267 - 282 Posted: 1995-05
Crossref
M Bolliger , I Cecchin
How do Banks set Loan Rates? An Empirical Investigation for Switzerland, memo Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,708
RANK
227,633
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Real Estate eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

On Government Centralization and Fiscal Referendums: A Theoretical Model and Evidence from Switzerland

By Lars P. Feld, Christoph A. Schaltegger, ...

Does Direct Democracy Reduce the Size of Government? New Evidence from Historical Data, 1890-2000

By Patricia Funk and Christina Gathmann

Does Direct Democracy Reduce the Size of Government? New Evidence from Historical Data, 1890-2000

By Patricia Funk

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies