Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposals to Change Lease Accounting: Evidence from Canada and Malaysia

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 2-15, December 2010

19 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2011

Roger D. Hussey

University of Windsor

Audra Ong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 8, 2011

Abstract

Leasing transactions are significant in business activities and both national and international accounting regulations require leases to be classified as either operating or finance leases. The International Accounting Standards Board recently proposed for the present classification to be removed, and for both finance and operating leases to appear on the balance sheet. This paper compares the opinions of 63 qualified accountants in Canada and 54 qualified accountants in Malaysia on the present regulations and the implications of the new standard. The responses from these countries support the substance-over-form model, but raise doubts on its applicability to leasing transactions. The majority of respondents agree on one method for accounting for leases, but support for the removal of finance and operating lease classifications is weaker. An analysis of the data reveals that those who believe the current information is of use are more likely to reject the proposed changes. This suggests that future research should be less concerned with whether users find the information relevant and should be directed towards the nature of user decisions and how the present information is utilised.

Keywords: finance, law

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hussey, Roger D. and Ong, Audra, Proposals to Change Lease Accounting: Evidence from Canada and Malaysia (March 8, 2011). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 2-15, December 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1780845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R K , Ashton
Accounting for Finance Leases: A Field Test' (1985) 15(59) Accounting and Business Research , p. 233 - 271
G Baylin , L Macdonald , A J Richardson
Accounting Standard-Setting in Canada: A Theoretical Analysis of Structural Evolution
Journal of International Accounting and Taxation , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 1996
Crossref
V Beattie , A Goodacre , S J Thomson
International Lease-accounting Reform and Economic Consequences: The Views of UK Users and Preparers
The International Journal of Accounting , issue 1 , p. 75 - 103 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Bennett , M Bradbury
Capitalizing Non-cancellable Operating Leases
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
570
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,533
RANK
110,264
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies