Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities in the New Corporations and Accounting Code (Handelsrechtliche Rückstellungen und Eventualverbindlichkeiten: Analyse des Entwurfes zum Aktien- Und Rechnungslegungsrecht)

FREIHEIT OHNE GRENZEN - GRENZEN DER FREIHEIT, pp. 179-196, Guido Muehlemann, Annja Mannhart, eds., Zuerich/St.Gallen, 2008

18 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2011

Lukas Mueller

University of St. Gallen; University of Fribourg - Faculty of Law; University of Zurich - Rechtswissenschaftliches Institut (School of Law)

Date Written: Mai 1, 2008

Abstract

This article discusses the rules for provisions and contingent liabilities as proposed in the draft of the Swiss Code of Obligations. The article explains the application of the new accounting and corporations law rules and compares the new rules of the Swiss Code of Obligations to the International Financial Reporting Standards, especially IAS 37.

The main conclusion is that the new Articles are not very clear since many ambiguities remain. With the new Code, the financial statements can still be prepared with many rights of choice. It is still possible to recognize provisions and contingent liabilities in many different ways. The new Code intended to reduce the possibilities for creative accounting; however, the proposed draft fails to eliminate those accounting loopholes.

Keywords: provisions, contingent liabilities, Swiss Code of Obligations, IAS 37, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards

JEL Classification: M41, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mueller, Lukas, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities in the New Corporations and Accounting Code (Handelsrechtliche Rückstellungen und Eventualverbindlichkeiten: Analyse des Entwurfes zum Aktien- Und Rechnungslegungsrecht) (Mai 1, 2008). FREIHEIT OHNE GRENZEN - GRENZEN DER FREIHEIT, pp. 179-196, Guido Muehlemann, Annja Mannhart, eds., Zuerich/St.Gallen, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1782235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Vgl , Art
Crossref
Vgl , Pellens/Fülbier/Gassen/ , Rechnungslegung Sellhorn
Vgl , Earning Moehrle
, volume 397
Crossref
Vgl , Ii
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
556
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,585
RANK
113,827
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies