Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control System in SME – Legal and Business Considerations for Small and Medium-Sized Joint Corporations [Das Interne Kontrollsystem beim KMU – Rechtliche und betriebswirtschaftliche Aspekte bei kleinen und mittleren Aktiengesellschaften]

WIRTSCHAFTSRECHT IN BEWEGUNG, FESTGABE ZUM 65 GEBURTSTAG VON PETER FORSTMOSER, pp. 317-345, Patrik R. Peyer, Bertrand Schott & Gaudenz Zindel, eds., 2008

20 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2011 Last revised: 22 Mar 2011

Lukas Mueller

University of St. Gallen; University of Fribourg - Faculty of Law; University of Zurich - Rechtswissenschaftliches Institut (School of Law)

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

Switzerland has introduced similar requirements as they are detetermined in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The provisions in the Swiss Code of Obligations, which came effective in 2008, require the directors of Swiss joint stock corporations to assess the risks related to the business of their corporation. This risk assessment report has to be disclosed in the notes of the financial statements. This article identifies a major problem in the implementation and maintenance of an internal control system. Frameworks, like the one designed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), which are dealing with internal control issues are designed for large, multinational companies and not for small or medium enterprises (SME). In other words: The same internal control systems which are adequate for large companies, are too complex for SME. Based on the framework proposed by CoSo, this article develops a simpler model for SME which are incorporated in Switzerland. The framework proposed in this article takes typical business risks into consideration regarding also the circumstances of SME.

Note: Downloadable document is in German.

Keywords: Internal Control, Corporations Law, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), SME, small or medium sized enterprises

JEL Classification: M40, M42, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Mueller, Lukas, Internal Control System in SME – Legal and Business Considerations for Small and Medium-Sized Joint Corporations [Das Interne Kontrollsystem beim KMU – Rechtliche und betriebswirtschaftliche Aspekte bei kleinen und mittleren Aktiengesellschaften] (January 1, 2008). WIRTSCHAFTSRECHT IN BEWEGUNG, FESTGABE ZUM 65 GEBURTSTAG VON PETER FORSTMOSER, pp. 317-345, Patrik R. Peyer, Bertrand Schott & Gaudenz Zindel, eds., 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1782227
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,844
RANK
39,310
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies