Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Schedule UTP – Two Major Issues

Tax Notes, p. 1559, March 28, 2011

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2011-03

7 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2011 Last revised: 30 Mar 2011

J. Richard (Dick) Harvey

Villanova University School of Law and Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: March 1, 2011

Abstract

Although Corporate America is not happy about Schedule UTP, most corporations seem resigned to the schedule’s existence and are now attempting to comply. In the process, Corporations have been addressing many technical questions, but two seem to be receiving the most attention: the definition of a “tax reserve”, and the application of the transition rule to pre-2010 NOL carryforwards.

The current definition of tax reserve is circular and it is not clear whether it includes certain scenarios (e.g., deferred tax reserves). The application of the transition rule is of significant importance to corporations that incurred NOL carryforwards during the recession from 2007 to 2009 and expect to utilize those carryforwards in 2010 and later years. The author addresses these two issues in depth and offers various alternative approaches.

Keywords: Schedule UTP, transparency, tax reserves, and NOL carryforwards

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, J. Richard, Schedule UTP – Two Major Issues (March 1, 2011). Tax Notes, p. 1559, March 28, 2011, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2011-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1782936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
RANK
552,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies