Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Policies and Efficient Corporate Tax Planning in Nigeria

Certified National Accountant, Vol. 18, No. 2, p. 42, April-June 2010

11 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Cletus Akenbor

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 1, 2010

Abstract

This study investigated the impact of accounting policies on efficient corporate tax planning in Nigeria. The population of the study consists of quoted companies operating in the South-East region of Nigeria. A well-structured questionnaire was administered on fifty-seven (57) financial controllers of the selected companies. Descriptive Statistical measures were used in analyzing the data generated from the study. Our findings indicates that accounting policies are appropriate in specific situations e.g. for the minimization of tax liability. It is recommended that management should always consider the accounting policies that are prudent to avoid recognition of income that will attract high tax cost. More so, companies should create tax specialist unit to manage tax matters.

Keywords: tax, accounting policies

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Akenbor, Cletus, Accounting Policies and Efficient Corporate Tax Planning in Nigeria (April 1, 2010). Certified National Accountant, Vol. 18, No. 2, p. 42, April-June 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1786311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S Ahbi
Tax Planning, (A paeel delivered at the workshop on Ingrain Corporate and Personal Income tax management Posted: 2001
J C Anyanwu
Nigerian Public Financed; (Onitsha
A J Auerbach , Jr A Hines , J Slemrod
Taxing Corporate. Income in the 2l Posted: 2007
Crossref
J J M Braide
The Theory and practice of cost Accounting Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,685
RANK
119,460
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies