Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the Fraud Triangle on Audit Process: The Nigerian Accountant's View

University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, p. 130, 2009

18 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Tochukwu Anthony Okafor

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ngozi Ijeoma

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The concept of "Fraud Triangle" is introduced to the accounting professional literature in the Statement of Auditing Standard (SAS) No 82 termed "Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit" The Fraud triangle embodies the three conditions generally present when fraud occurs, incentive/pressure, Opportunity and Attitude !Rationalization. The objective of this research is to investigate more complex relationships between the main factors that affect fraud and audit risk. Input from forensic experts, academics and others consistently show that evaluation of information about fraud is enhanced when auditors evaluate in the context of these three conditions. To examine the impact of the fraud triangle on the audit process, three hypotheses were formulated and the data generated from questionnaire were tabulated and analyzed using percentage analysis, frequency table and mean score. The hypotheses were finally tested using z-test statistic and also Baseline model (SAS No 47) and Baseline Model with fraud Risk Assessment (SAS No 82) were equally used for this analysis. The results of the analysis support tile concept of the fraud triangle in that tile three components and the relationships between these components arc shown to have a substantial impact on audit risk. It was founded that audit risk decrease as tile evidence for management integrity increase. The study also reveal that without performing appropriate modify audit procedure and obtaining evidence supporting no fraud audit risk will never be reduces to acceptable level The researcher recommends that a "forensic type field work" be introduces into audits. It is also recommended that auditors should appropriately modify audit procedures and obtain evidence supporting no fraud for this will help to reduce audit risk to beef up their internal control to monitor the red flags of fraud.

Keywords: fraud, audit, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Okafor, Tochukwu Anthony and Ijeoma, Ngozi, Impact of the Fraud Triangle on Audit Process: The Nigerian Accountant's View (2009). University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, p. 130, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1788883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Risk and Materiality in Conducting an Audit
AlCPA . (AICPA) , issue 47 Posted: 1984
S K Dutta , K Harrison , Rp. ; P Srivastava , Siegel , Orner , A Korvin , Zebda
The Audit Risk Model under the Risk of Fraud
Applications of Fuzzy Sets & The Theory of Evidence to Accounting IL , volume 7 Posted: 1998
T David , T Wand Dame
The Fraud Diamond: Considering the Four Elements of fraud
The CPA Journal Posted: 2004-12
P Nwabuoke
Fundamentals a/Statistics Enugu Koruna Books Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,453
RANK
45,651
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies