Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Possibilities of Adopting IAS/IFRS in Vietnam: An Analysis

Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 9, Iss. 1, (Fall 2011)

11 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2011 Last revised: 30 Oct 2018

Nguyen Huu Cuong

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Date Written: February 27, 2011

Abstract

It is universally acknowledged that the matter of adoption and its similar process (harmonisation or convergence) has provoked extensively heated debate in the accounting literature, both from advocates and from opponents. Nonetheless, the accounting literature lacks research into the field of Vietnamese accounting, in general, and the nature of Vietnamese accounting systems as well as Vietnamese Accounting Standards (VAS), in particular. This paper’s in-depth critical analysis looks at the possibility of adopting IAS/IFRS in Vietnam. Specifically, this paper considers the factors affecting the adoption of IAS/IFRS by Vietnam, and the arguments for and against adoption of IAS/IFRS which is valuable for considering IAS/IFRS within the Vietnamese accounting milieu.

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Cuong Huu, The Possibilities of Adopting IAS/IFRS in Vietnam: An Analysis (February 27, 2011). Corporate Ownership & Control, Vol. 9, Iss. 1, (Fall 2011), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1788942
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Abd-Elsalam , P Oh &amp; Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
A &amp; Ali , L-S Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M J Ali
A synthesis of empirical research on international accounting harmonization and compliance with international financial reporting standards
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 24 , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2005
J &amp; Ashraf , Ghani , Wi
Accounting development in Pakistan
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 40 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 201 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,177
RANK
256,498
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies