Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accountant: Role & Future Challenges

5 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2011

Dr. Sisira Kanti Mishra

SOA University

Date Written: March 16, 2011

Abstract

Management accounting, in fact, has a long and significant history of direct contribution to the planning and control of organisational operations. Arguably it has historically been a broadly focused function working hand-in-glove with management decision-making, having a major impact upon organisational strategy and outcomes. Here, efforts are made to reflect upon the forces and changes impacting upon our contemporary accounting profession with a view to considering the changing profile of management accounting work and the accompanying changing roles of management accountants.

Suggested Citation:

Mishra, Dr. Sisira Kanti, Management Accountant: Role & Future Challenges (March 16, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1788032 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1788032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,084
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,234
RANK
9,251
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies