Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Accounting Standards Neutral or Unbiased?

Journal of Science and Technology, University of Danang, 5(46), pp 146-152

7 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2011 Last revised: 30 Oct 2018

Nguyen Huu Cuong

Danang University of Economics - The University of Danang

Date Written: January 8, 2011

Abstract

It is universally acknowledged that accounting standards and conceptual framework provide a solid foundation for financial accounting practices. Interestingly, by examining the nature of accounting and the process of accounting standard-setting, it is difficult to expect absolute neutrality or impartiality in national accounting standards as well as international ones.

Keywords: accounting standards

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Cuong Huu, Are Accounting Standards Neutral or Unbiased? (January 8, 2011). Journal of Science and Technology, University of Danang, 5(46), pp 146-152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1790665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,283
RANK
411,653
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies