Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creation of Wealth in Accounting Profession Issues and Challenges for Ethical Reorientation

Journal of Business and Education, Vol. 1, No. 1, 2007

10 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: March 21, 2011

Abstract

Accounting is an old profession. Records of transactions have been prepared for centuries. Then accounting was not a profession but a mere record-keeping. Today, accounting is a profession and accounting activities are more challenging than ever before. Accountants have an obligation to the organization they serve, the profession, the public and themselves, to maintain the highest standard of ethical conduct. Ethics is necessary in order to regulate the activities and behaviour of accounting practitioners thereby enabling them to create. Accountants can create wealth in the profession through the services they render to the public. Such services include auditing and investigation services, consulting services, to mention but a few. This paper, therefore discussed, apart from introduction, the ethical imperative of accounting as a profession, ethical standards accounting profession, accounting profession and wealth creation and challenges for ethical re-orientation. Some recommendations were also made.

Keywords: wealth creation, ethics

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Creation of Wealth in Accounting Profession Issues and Challenges for Ethical Reorientation (March 21, 2011). Journal of Business and Education, Vol. 1, No. 1, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1791443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
ICAN, presidency trade accusation on corruption. The Guardian
Editorial Commentary Posted: 2006-10-16
P N Ejiofor
Management in Nigeria: Theories and Issues. Onitsha Africana-Fep publishers Posted: 1987
R H Hermanson , J Edwards , Salmonson R
Posted: 1987
C Horngren , G Foster
Cost Accounting: A Managerial Emphasis New Jersey Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,705
RANK
454,090
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies