Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies for Sustainable Accounting and Maintenance of Obsolescence in Public Enterprise

Journal of Economics and Management Studies, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2007

15 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Ogbada Eyong Ikwa

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

In recent years, there have been noticeable lackadaisical attitudes among accountants and managers towards adequate accounting for, and maintenance of obsolescence in public enterprises (i.e. the corporations). Most of these obsolete facilities and equipment have lost their functional values as a result of lack of adequate accounting and maintenance practices. The dilapidated and deteriorating state of obsolete facilities in public enterprise leave much to be desired. This paper focuses on the strategies for sustainable accounting for and maintenance of obsolescence in public enterprise. The meaning of obsolescence and depreciation, accounting, Public enterprise, and maintenance of obsolescence are examined. Accounting and maintenance strategies are highlighted and recommendations proffered.

Keywords: accounting, maintenance

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Eyong Ikwa, Ogbada, Strategies for Sustainable Accounting and Maintenance of Obsolescence in Public Enterprise (2007). Journal of Economics and Management Studies, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1791430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
R A Adeboyeje
A Practical Approach to Effective Utilization and Maintenance of
Educ3tJbnal Pisnninq and Administration in'Nigeria in the 21st Century. Ibadan: National In9titute for Educational Plqnning and Administration(NIEPA) Posted: 1999
B Amirize
{1999): School Plant: Management and ~aintenance
Journal of Education,alPolicy and Administration: VOI , volume 1
Crossref
Bbe English Dictionary
London. Harpercollins Pubtish~, 'i!rtttfl Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,386
RANK
759,919
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies