Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labour Remuneration and Management of Payroll Accounting in Business Organizations

Nigerian Journal of Management and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 2, July 2005

6 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

Labour has been one of the vital factors, or has contributed a lot to the development of every organization. In fact, without labour, no organization can accomplish its objectives or goals. Hence, the existence of labour, just to ensure that organizational goals are achieved. In providing labour for production of goods and services, man is paid wages as a reward to labour, that is to say, Labour is essential to production without which production is incomplete. Wages (remuneration) as a reward to labour is a great incentive to workers to increase productivity Remunerations are therefore wages paid to stimulate labour and productivity Labour itself is the exertion of mental and physical human effort on production activities with a view to ensuring organizational goal and objective.

Keywords: labour renumeration, payroll accounting

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Labour Remuneration and Management of Payroll Accounting in Business Organizations (2005). Nigerian Journal of Management and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 2, July 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1792304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
H Abba
Cost Accounting, Principles and Concepts, 3 rd Edition Posted: 1998
Crossref
C Edwin
Management Accounting; A New Emphasis, New Jessy Posted: 1997
Crossref
C B Fredrick
Conceptual Issues in cost and Management Accounting Posted: 1998
B O Nester
Principles and Techniques of Cost Accounting (The Atomic Approach) Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,974
RANK
277,436
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies