Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Revenues: A Framework for Standard Setting

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 25, No. 3, September 2011

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-690

28 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2011 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Eiko Tsujiyama

Waseda University - Graduate School of Commerce

Date Written: March 6, 2011

Abstract

This paper proposes an accounting for revenues as an alternative to the proposals currently begin aired by the FASB and IASB. Existing revenue recognition rules are vague, resulting in messy application, so the Boards are seeking a remedy. However, their proposals replace the traditional criteria — revenue is recognized when it is both “realized or realizable” and “earned” — with similarly vague notions that require both the identification of a “performance obligation” and the “satisfaction” of a performance obligation. Our framework aims for the concreteness that yields practical accounting solutions. It has three features. First, revenue is recognized when a customer makes a payment or a firm commitment to pay. Second, revenue recognition and profit recognition are combined, with profit recognition determined on the basis of objective criteria about the resolution of uncertainty under a contract, and then conservatively so. Two alternative approaches are offered: the complete contract method (where profit is recognized only on the termination of a contract) and the profit margin method (where a profit margin is applied to recognized revenues throughout the contract as the contract profit margin becomes clear. The latter requires resolution of uncertainty, so the completed contract method is the default.

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Bloomfield, Robert J. and Glover, Jonathan C. and Jamal, Karim and Ohlson, James A. and Penman, Stephen H. and Tsujiyama, Eiko, Accounting for Revenues: A Framework for Standard Setting (March 6, 2011). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 25, No. 3, September 2011, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-690, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1792494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1792494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
921
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,276
RANK
58,646
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies