Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Content Based Analysis of Comment Letters on the IASB Discussion Paper 'Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity'

19 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2011

Roberto Maglio

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: March 26, 2011

Abstract

The distinction between equity and liabilities is a challenging question for international standard setters.

On this topic, the IASB and the FASB are developing a long-term project with the aim of addressing unresolved issues around classifying financial instruments as either equity or liabilities. With this regard, many approaches, which involve various effects on the gearing and on the reported earnings, have been proposed.

In its discussion paper “Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity” the IASB exposed the alternative methods previously presented by the FASB in former Preliminary Views. Among the three different approaches, the Basic Ownership Approach was recommended in consideration of its simplicity with the hope of reducing structuring opportunities.

Also the EFRAG gave its contribution to this debate by issuing its own discussion paper; it suggested a new classification method, the Loss Absorption Approach.

As any controversial case, it is thus interesting to have a deeper understanding of the process that will lead to the final accounting standard which should be, in future, adopted by both the IASB and the FASB.

In this research a content based analysis on comment letters sent in response to the discussion paper of the IASB will be developed. Two aspects will be studied, primarily the relation between the geographical provenance of respondents and their positions expressed in the comment letters, secondly the relation between the enterprise’s form (cooperative/versus non cooperative) of respondents and their own preference.

Suggested Citation:

Maglio, Roberto, A Content Based Analysis of Comment Letters on the IASB Discussion Paper 'Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity' (March 26, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1795982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1795982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
E Abrahamson , E Amir
The information content of the president's letter to shareholders
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 23 , p. 1157 - 1182 Posted: 1996
Crossref
De Jong , A -Rosellon , M -Verwijmeren , P
The Economic Consequences of IFRS: The Impact of IAS 32 on Preference Shares in the Netherlands , p. 169 - 185 Posted: 2006
P M Dechow , A P Hutton , R G Sloan
Economic Consequences of Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 1996
Crossref
E Engel , M -Erickson , E -Maydew
Debt-Equity Hybrid Securities
Journal of Accounting Reserarch , issue 2 , p. 249 - 274 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
283
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,306
RANK
246,365
3 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Economic Consequences of IFRS: The Impact of Ias 32 on Preference Shares in the Netherlands

By Abe De Jong, Miguel Angel Rosellón Cifuentes, ...

The New French Preferred Shares: Moving Towards a More Liberal Approach

By Pierre-henri Conac

Securities that Do the Deal: The Decision to Issue Preference Shares by UK Firms

By Sandra Laurent

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies