Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Price Discrimination in Income Taxation

28 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2011 Last revised: 31 Jan 2012

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 30, 2012

Abstract

Governments throughout the developed world worry incessantly about the implications of sophisticated tax planning for their tax revenues. And yet the same governments routinely stop short of doing all that they can legally do to combat tax avoidance. Why? One response is that a thick conception of the rule of law constrains governments to adopt only certain kinds of responses to tax avoidance. Another response is that inherent structural limitations in tax administrative capacity or features of the political economy environment constrain the available responses to a subset of those that are possible de jure. Even considered jointly, however, the rule of law and political economy explanations do not provide an adequate account of the observed behavior of governments in the context of anti-avoidance. The main inadequacy is that the accounts fail to provide an explanation of the circumstances that will give rise to aggressive measures countering tax avoidance.

This paper introduces the “integrated price discrimination” account of income taxation. The integrated price discrimination account provides an original and superior explanation of lax anti-avoidance. An advantage of the integrated price discrimination account is that it better explains the observed practice of most developed countries. Another advantage of the price discrimination account is that it does not require that governments adopt this counter-intuitive approach consciously; it could simply be an unintentional byproduct of decisions taken for different reasons. Several policy implications of the integrated price discrimination account are addressed.

Keywords: tax avoidance, GAAR, tax expenditures, rule of law, political economy, price discrimination, optimal tax theory

JEL Classification: H21, L0, L10, D11, D21

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin, Price Discrimination in Income Taxation (January 30, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1796284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1796284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
In the economics literature these observable attributes are, following Akerlof, sometimes referred to as "tags Posted: 1978
American Economic Review , volume 8
Crossref
See William , S Vickrey
Measuring Marginal Utility by Reactions to Risk , p. 13 - 319 Posted: 1945
James A Mirrlees , ; ; , James A Mirrlees
An Exploration in the Theory of Optimal Income Taxation"(1971) 38 Review of Economic Studies 175
Handbook of Mathematical Economics , p. 1198 - 1249 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,210
RANK
174,067
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies