Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Auditors in Western Europe Uniformly Adhere to the Principle of Independence?

CA Magazine, pp. 50-52, 2006

Posted: 30 Mar 2011

Donald F. Arnold

Union Graduate College - School of Management

Richard A. Bernardi

Roger Williams University - Gabelli School of Business; Roger Williams University

Presha E. Neidermeyer

West Virginia University - Department of Accounting and Management Information Systems

Date Written: March 28, 2006

Abstract

Auditor independence has been a long-standing principle within the accounting profession. The ultimate test and purpose of auditor independence is the creation of an objective state of mind. But since it is not possible to control a person's state of mind, the rules of independence have traditionally focused on controls of specific behavior such as not allowing auditors to hold stock in companies they audit or, more recently, prohibiting auditors from providing consulting services to audit clients.

Suggested Citation:

Arnold, Donald F. and Bernardi, Richard A. and Neidermeyer, Presha E., Do Auditors in Western Europe Uniformly Adhere to the Principle of Independence? (March 28, 2006). CA Magazine, pp. 50-52, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1797863
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies