Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Americans Don’t Hate Taxes, They Hate Paying Taxes

University of British Columbia Law Review, Vol. 44, No. 3, p. 835, 2011

UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 251

56 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2011 Last revised: 11 Jan 2012

Dennis J. Ventry

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: March 31, 2011

Abstract

This Article recommends reforming the way Americans pay taxes with a plan that eases the burden for taxpayers and paid preparers, and communicates with taxpayer-citizens in a more responsive, dialogic fashion. By leveraging technology and exploiting the government’s core competency for maximizing efficiencies in filing taxes, the plan slashes costs (monetary as well as psychological), and offers a consumer friendly, secure, and educational tax-filing portal.

The proposed “data retrieval” platform allows taxpayers and preparers to view, access, and download tax information from a secure database maintained by the government. Rather than having to gather this information from employers, financial institutions, and third parties, taxpayers and their advisors rely on a centralized clearinghouse. Taxpayers with sophisticated returns may still need to input certain information, such as charitable contributions and some capital gains, but data retrieval can simplify filing for all 145 million taxpayers. It also offers an opportunity to communicate with taxpayers and preparers, listen to concerns, meet needs, and improve the system through a dialogue that enhances fiscal literacy and tax consciousness.

Finally, the government - not the private sector - is uniquely positioned to lead this reform. Data retrieval leverages the government’s competitive advantage and core competency in the area of tax filing. Under current taxpayer confidentiality laws, the private sector is prohibited from providing a comparable service for maintaining and updating a centralized database that contains sensitive tax account information. Only the government can bring these efficiencies to the filing process, and ease the filing burden for all taxpayers and their advisors.

Suggested Citation:

Ventry, Dennis J., Americans Don’t Hate Taxes, They Hate Paying Taxes (March 31, 2011). University of British Columbia Law Review, Vol. 44, No. 3, p. 835, 2011, UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 251, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1800164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Jackie Calmes
Obama Weighing Broad Overhaul for Income Tax Posted: 2010-12
Shamik Trivedi
Obama Promises to Push for Tax Reform for
129 Tax Notes , volume 129 , issue 13 Posted: 2010
See Holtzblatt, supra note 74 at 30
News Irs , Release
Nearly 70 Percent of Taxpayers Used IRS e-file in 2010 Posted: 2010-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
325
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,785
RANK
212,384
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Davis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies