Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Problems: The Analysis of Quality of Disclosure and the Measurement System of the Traditional Accounting

International Symposium on Finance and Accounting, July 6-8, 2009, Kualalumpur, Malaysia

25 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2011 Last revised: 13 Oct 2014

Abdul Ghofar

Brawijaya University

Erwin Saraswati

University of Brawijaya

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Full disclosure has been regarded as one of the cornerstones of the accounting system to protect investors from "opportunistic behavior" of management. This principle is also put as the main principles of good corporate governance. Such idea has caused the dependency on full disclosure. However this paper reveals that the more the companies disclose information in financial statement, the more likely the companies will smooth their income. This paper argues that the main problem of the accounting is in the measurement system. Historical cost accounting should be abandoned. The single measurement such as cash equivalent unit proposed by Chambers can be used as alternatives. In this case, The International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) has been one step ahead in improving the quality of financial reports through the use of fair value valuation.

Keywords: Good Corporate Governance, Disclosure, Income Smoothing, Accounting Measurement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ghofar, Abdul and Saraswati, Erwin, Financial Reporting Problems: The Analysis of Quality of Disclosure and the Measurement System of the Traditional Accounting (2009). International Symposium on Finance and Accounting, July 6-8, 2009, Kualalumpur, Malaysia, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1802916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Ahmed , J K Courtis
Association between corporate characteristics and disclosure levels in annual reports: A meta-analysis
British Accounting Review , volume 31 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J J Archambault , M E Archambault
A multinational test of determinants of corporate disclosure
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 38 , p. 173 - 194 Posted: 2003
Crossref
N Ashari , C K Hian , L T Soh , H W Wei
Factors affecting income smoothing among listed companies in singapura, accounting and bussines research
Accounting and Bussines Research , volume 24 , issue 96 , p. 291 - 301 Posted: 1994
Crossref
C Bathala , S J Carlson
Ownership differences and firms' income smoothing behavior
Journal Of Business Finance & Accoubting , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 179 - 196 Posted: 1997-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
842
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,495
RANK
66,408
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies