Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
SOX 2002: Unintended Consequences - Should the CFO be the COO?

15 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011

John H. Nugent

Texas Woman's University - College of Business; Texas Woman's University College of Business

Mark Tengesdal

Texas Woman's University

Gregory McElvay

Texas Woman's University

Date Written: April 3, 2011

Abstract

This paper addresses and presents insights concerning an important organizational issue that arises with advent of Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 [Pub.L. 107-204; 116 Stat. 745] and the role and responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Classical organizational theory indicates that effective organizations align roles, responsibilities, and resources in order to achieve the best outcomes. Today, many of the resources required to carry out the financial and accounting functions (computers, programming, systems, and networks) are the responsibility of the Chief Information Officer (CIO) who typically reports to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or Chief Operating Officer (COO), not the CFO. As SOX now places individual responsibility on the CEO and CFO alike regarding the material correctness and integrity of the financials and the adequacy of internal controls [and by inference control over assets and operations that generate the financial, the question arises as to whether the CFO should be elevated in authority or have control and responsibility for the assets required to properly affect the CFO operating and reporting function and compliance with the required SOX 302 attestation.

Keywords: Accounting, accountability, IT, MIS, roles, alignment, responsibilities, organizational development, organizational design, organizational structure, corporate structure, SOX, Section 302, Sarbanes-Oxley, attestation, internal controls, CFO, CEO, CIO, COO

Suggested Citation:

Nugent, John H. and Tengesdal, Mark and McElvay, Gregory, SOX 2002: Unintended Consequences - Should the CFO be the COO? (April 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1802025
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Baseline Magazine
Accurate Information: 5 Steps to Getting It Right
Article may be Posted: 2005
Elazar Berkovitch , Ronen Israel , Yossi Spiegel
A Double Moral Hazard Model of Organization Design
Pages: 34 Posted: 26 Dec 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Chandler
Strategy and Structure: Chapter in the History of the American Industrial Enterprise Posted: 1962
Crossref
The ROI of Alignment, CIO Magazine
CIO Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,299
RANK
99,140
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Economic Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

By Ivy Zhang

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Making of Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

Quack Corporate Governance

By Roberta Romano

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies