Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Creation of a Groundless Exception to the Dormant Commerce Clause: An Expansion on the Dissenting Opinion in Department of Revenue v. Davis

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 11, No. 3, p. 341, 2010

39 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2011

Eric Smith

Weber State University (WSU)

Date Written: October 1, 2010

Abstract

Most states exempt from state taxable income interest earned on in-state bonds. Some of those states, however, do not afford the same treatment to out-of-state bonds. This differential taxation scheme was the subject of the Supreme Court Case, Department of Revenue v. Davis, in which the Court upheld the disparate treatment of state-issued bonds.

This article analyzes the Court’s rationale for upholding the differential tax system in light of prior precedent interpreting the dormant Commerce Clause of the Constitution. It is the author’s contention that the doctrine created in, United Haulers Ass'n v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Mgmt., the “government-entity” exception to the dormant Commerce Clause, and applied in, Davis, was created under a false distinction and therefore should never have come to light. Had the “government-entity” exception not existed, the differential tax scheme most likely would have been struck down as a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause.

Keywords: dormant commerce clause, state bond taxation

JEL Classification: H71

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Eric Steven, The Creation of a Groundless Exception to the Dormant Commerce Clause: An Expansion on the Dissenting Opinion in Department of Revenue v. Davis (October 1, 2010). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 11, No. 3, p. 341, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,282
RANK
880,951
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies