Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Analysis of the Economic Value Added Method

8 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2011 Last revised: 7 Jun 2011

Baitshepi Tebogo

The Learning Village(Pty)Ltd

Date Written: June 4, 2011

Abstract

This paper provides a critical analysis of the Economic Value Added (EVA) method. The paper critiques two articles published by Stern Stewart & Co.: Accounting is Broken, Here’s How to Fix It: A RADICAL MANIFESTO and The Capitalist Manifesto: The Transformation of the Corporation, Employee Capitalism. EVA has been hailed as an innovative value-facilitating technique since it tends to focus management’s attention on value-creating activities rather than on short-term gains. This much is appreciated, but Stern Stewart & Co., the main promoters of EVA, have gone on to trash the accountancy profession, an approach with which the author of this paper disagrees. Stern Stewart & Co. makes sweeping allegations against the practice of accounting without indicating which version of accounting they are against. In this paper, differences between the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) are highlighted. In addition, this paper goes on to applaud Stern Stewart & Co. for their work on EVA, and discuss how EVA could be used to promote amicable working relationships between managers and employees.

Keywords: EVA, Stern Stewart, Management, Value, Accounting, FASB, IASB

JEL Classification: M49, P43

Suggested Citation:

Tebogo, Baitshepi, A Critical Analysis of the Economic Value Added Method (June 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1803665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Shrikant Panigrahi
Economic Value Added and Traditional Accounting Measures for Shareholder's Wealth Creation
Panigrahi, S. K. (2017). Economic Value Added and Traditional Accounting Measures for Shareholder’s Wealth Creation. Asian Journal of Accounting and Governance, 8, 125-136., · 12 Pages · Posted: 31 Jan 2020 · Downloads: 424
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,179
RANK
36,842
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies