Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Logic of Pension Accounting

Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2009

International Accounting Policy Forum. pp. 231-249, 2009

Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0807

30 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2011

Christopher J. Napier

University of London - Royal Holloway College - School of Management

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

Accounting for pensions has been a problem for standard setters for over 30 years. Early attempts to develop accounting standards were based on a cost orientation and reflected funding considerations. More recently, a balance sheet focus has led to issues over identification and measurement of pension liabilities and assets. Accounting standards that permit enterprises to ignore, spread or segregate elements of pension cost, or to create artificial cost measures, are open to criticism and are gradually disappearing. The aim of a principle-based pension accounting will be to ‘tell it as it is’, fairly reflecting the rights and obligations of employers, employees and funding vehicles. Moreover, complex pension arrangements cannot be reported simplistically – if users wish to minimise surprises relating to pensions, then enterprises must disclose a rich set of information.

Keywords: Financial reporting, pensions, retirement benefits, accounting standards, liabilities, actuarial gains and losses

Suggested Citation:

Napier, Christopher John, The Logic of Pension Accounting (December 1, 2008). Accounting and Business Research, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2009, International Accounting Policy Forum. pp. 231-249, 2009, Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0807, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1803352 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1803352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 8, Accounting for the Cost of Pension Plans
APB Posted: 1966
T R Archibald
Accounting for Pension Costs and Liabilities (A Reconciliation of Accounting and Funding Practices) Posted: 1980
Asb
Financial Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits Posted: 2000
Asb
Reporting Statement, Retirement Benefits -Disclosures Posted: 2007
Load more
2 Citations
Jan D. Fasshauer , Martin Glaum
The Value Relevance of Pension Fair Values and Uncertainty
53 Pages · Posted: 19 Oct 2009 · Last revised: 25 Oct 2012 · Downloads: 621
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Divya Anantharaman , Darren Henderson
Don’t settle for current GAAP: A critical assessment of pension liability measurement
40 Pages · Posted: 30 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 70
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
206,880
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Pension Risk Management eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies