Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Business Taxation

DIMENSIONS OF TAX DESIGN: THE MIRRLEES REVIEW, Stuart Adam, Stephen Bond, Robert Chote, Paul Johnson and Gareth Myles, eds., Oxford University Press, June 2010

Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25/2011

73 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2011

Judith Freedman

University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; Oxford University Centre for Business Taxation

Claire Crawford

Institute for Fiscal Studies

Date Written: June 6, 2010

Abstract

This paper, commissioned by the Institute for Fiscal Studies for the Mirrlees Review on Reforming the Tax System for the 21st Century, discusses the taxation of small, owner-managed businesses. It focuses on the difficulties created by taxing different legal forms of business-employees, the self-employed, unincorporated traders, partnerships and incorporated firms- in different ways. The chapter argues that the aim should be to align effective tax rates (including national insurance (social security) contributions) for these groups after taking into account capital investment and suggests ways of achieving this. In addition the authors reject the case for blanket tax incentives for small businesses, although they accept the case for specific reliefs, if they can be targeted effectively, where there is a market failure or to assist with compliance costs.

Keywords: taxation, small owner-managed businesses, effective tax rates

Suggested Citation:

Freedman, Judith and Crawford, Claire, Small Business Taxation (June 6, 2010). DIMENSIONS OF TAX DESIGN: THE MIRRLEES REVIEW, Stuart Adam, Stephen Bond, Robert Chote, Paul Johnson and Gareth Myles, eds., Oxford University Press, June 2010 , Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 25/2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1804333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
£68 , volume 268
Crossref
£6,013.49 Income tax £3 , volume 472
Crossref
£20
Crossref
Class 1 employee £1 , volume 673
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,420
RANK
45,245
2 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Tax Distortions to the Choice of Organizational Form

By Roger H. Gordon and Jeffrey K. Mackie-mason

How Much Do Taxes Discourage Incorporation

By Jeffrey K. Mackie-mason and Roger H. Gordon

Taxes, Organizational Form, and the Deadweight Loss of the Corporate Income Tax

By Austan Goolsbee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies