Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why is Small Business the Chief Business of Congress?

Rutgers Law Journal, Vol. 43, p. 1, 2012

University of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2011-12

58 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2011 Last revised: 27 Nov 2012

Mirit Eyal

University of Alabama - School of Law

Date Written: February 7, 2011

Abstract

Small business is a sacred cow in America. In 1958, Congress created the Small Business Investment Company ("SBIC"), a unique public-private program that provides long-term capital to small entrepreneurs. From its inception, however, the SBIC has been plagued by inefficiency and failure. Yet, Congress continues to pour millions of dollars into the SBIC program, with no end in sight. What explains this failed policy course?

This article argues that the SBIC program exemplifies the pitfalls of legal and political institutional path dependency and should be replaced by private institutional lending systems. Pursuant to this account, past decisions can influence future legal developments even in the face of material social change.

Political institutions can entrench ineffective paths by sustaining dynamics of "increasing returns" through processes of "positive feedbacks" and "self-reinforcement." Increasing returns occur when the benefits of a choice augment simply because over time more people opt for that choice.

Our romantic ideal of small business as an economic and social catalyst has sprouted positive cultural feedbacks. Thereafter, the establishment of the House and Senate Small Business Committees and the Small Business Administration sustained this culture, self-reinforcing the SBIC program inefficient path where we remain invested to this day.

Keywords: small business, SBA, SBIC program, Small Business Investment Company, path dependency, positive feedback, political systems, business culture, private institutional lending, self-reinforcement, policy reform, tax reform, tax breaks, tax law, entrepreneurship, minority businesses, equity gap

JEL Classification: K34, K20, H25, H81

Suggested Citation:

Eyal, Mirit, Why is Small Business the Chief Business of Congress? (February 7, 2011). Rutgers Law Journal, Vol. 43, p. 1, 2012, University of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2011-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1805167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
RUTGERS LAW JOURNAL , volume 43
Crossref
J Wall St
President Johnson and the SBA initiated a new lending program designed to target "Mom and Pop" stores with less than four employees. Federal Lending Plan to Very Small Firms Disclosed; 514 Loans Already Made as Test Posted: 1964-05-27
Jonathan Spivak , ; Bill , J St , J Wall St , J Wall St
at 1. 167. An exception was noted in 1961 when the SBA rejected additional authority given to it by Senate; yet the SBA soon altered its position. See supra note 156. 168. SBA Says Its Loan Activity Will Fall in Fiscal '60: But Official Asks House to Raise Lending Authority by $150 Million for Fiscal '61
Poverty-Fight Plans: Administration Pushes For Fast Action Once Congress Passes Posted: 1960-05-25
Johnson&apos;s ; Wall J St , L Sanford , ; Jacobs , J Wall St
A deep cut in the Small Business Administration's loan authority is called for under Reagan budgettightening Posted: 1966-04-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
280,691
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pittsburgh School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies