Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transition to IFRS and Compliance with Mandatory Disclosures: What is the Signal?

Advances in Accounting, Incorporating Advances in International Accounting, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2011

Posted: 10 Apr 2011 Last revised: 22 Sep 2011

Ioannis Tsalavoutas

University of Glasgow - Accounting and Finance Group

Date Written: April 8, 2011

Abstract

The present study, first, examines 153 Greek listed companies’ compliance with all IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements during 2005. Second, the present research complements and extends prior literature in the following way. The unique setting i.e., measuring compliance with IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements during the first year of IFRS implementation, allows for examination of the possibility that the change in the 2004 shareholders’ equity and net income, as a result of the adoption of IFRS, constitute explanatory factors for compliance. Thus, this study hypothesises that, in addition to the financial measures and other corporate characteristics that prior literature identifies as proxies for explaining compliance, a significant change in fundamental financial measures, because of the change in the accounting regime, may also explain compliance based on the premises of the relevant disclosure theories. The findings confirm these hypotheses. Third, this study makes a methodological contribution on measuring compliance with all IFRS mandatory disclosure requirements by using two different index methods (cf. Street and Gray, 2001; Tsalavoutas et al., 2010) and pointing out the different conclusions may be drawn as a result.

Keywords: IFRS, Compliance, Mandatory Disclosures, Greece

Suggested Citation:

Tsalavoutas, Ioannis, Transition to IFRS and Compliance with Mandatory Disclosures: What is the Signal? (April 8, 2011). Advances in Accounting, Incorporating Advances in International Accounting, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1805508
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies