Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixing the Double Deduction from Carried Interest

The Shelf Project Tax Notes, p. 203, April 2011

12 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2011

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: April 20, 2011

Abstract

Commonly and appropriately, a service partner is taxed on the value of a partnership interest transferred as compensation. When the value of the interest exceeds its tax book value (capital account), the partnership seems to be allowed a double deduction, akin to deduction of both the accrual and the payment of the expense. The partnership gets a deduction for the fair market value of the partnership interest that the service partner includes in income and the other non-service partners later allocate partnership income over to the service partner, which is functionally equivalent to a second deduction for the same item.

The Shelf Project proposal would limit the partnership’s deduction to the basis or capital account transferred to the service partner. The proposal also would tax sale of an income interest in the partnership as immediate ordinary income. The proposal would also apply to S corporation stock, where the problem is the same.

The proposal is equivalent to treating the partnership as if it had sold ordinary assets to pay the partnership interest. The discussion rejects the argument that the transfer of the partnership interest fits under section 721 for nonrecognition, and rejects an analogy between section 1032 (nonrecognition by a corporation in issuing stock) and section 721. It rejects the argument that the partnership should be treated as selling a fractional share of all its assets. A partnership can sometimes achieve a result better than the proposal by a real sale of assets, but the real sale would solve valuation difficulties and sometimes prevent the inappropriate accounting.

The proposal is made as a part of the Shelf Project, which is a collaboration among tax professionals to develop proposals to raise revenue in the ongoing revenue crisis by defending the tax base. It is intended to raise revenue without a VAT or a rate increase in ways that will improve the fairness, efficiency, and rationality of the tax system. The hard work needs to be done now to develop viable proposals. Shelf projects are intended to foreclose both 85 percent income tax rates and 60 percent federal sales taxes.

Shelf Project proposals follow the format of a congressional tax committee report in explaining current law, what is wrong with it, and how to fix it.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Fixing the Double Deduction from Carried Interest (April 20, 2011). The Shelf Project Tax Notes, p. 203, April 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1816725 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1816725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Sigitas Karpavicius , Fan Yu
Should Interest Expenses Be Tax Deductible?
Economic Modelling, Forthcoming · 43 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2013 · Last revised: 20 Dec 2015 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,124
RANK
514,796
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies