Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Penalty Protection Opinions and Advisor Conflicts of Interest

27 Akron. Tax. J. 55 (2012)

63 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2011 Last revised: 9 May 2012

David T. Moldenhauer

Clifford Chance US LLP; New York Law School

Date Written: May 8, 2012

Abstract

This article considers when a taxpayer should not be able to rely on a tax opinion to avoid penalties when the tax advisor rendering the opinion has an apparent conflict of interest.

The article has three parts. The first part describes the statutory and regulatory standards for taxpayers seeking to rely on tax advice to avoid penalties. The second part of the article describes the cases where a taxpayer has sought to rely on the opinion of a tax advisor with a conflict of interest. Those cases involve three types of situations: (1) tax advisors acting as promoters or brokers of a tax shelter; (2) tax advisors with referral arrangements with tax shelter promoters; and (3) tax advisors that are developers or implementers of a tax strategy.

The third part of the article proposes a framework for analyzing how a conflict of interest may affect the reliability of a tax advisor's opinion. It first argues that the analysis should not apply a per se rule, but rather should determine reasonableness and good faith from the perspective of what the taxpayer knew or should have known of the tax advisor's conflict and how the conflict may have affected the reliability of the opinion. In the absence of a per se rule, a court first should consider whether a conflict is relevant to the reliability of the opinion. If the conflict is relevant, the court should consider both (1) the inducement that the apparent conflict may have created to distort the advice ("temptation"), and (2) the advisor's apparent response to such inducement ("resistance"). These two variables can be used to create a framework where the level of apparent temptation is compared to the level of apparent resistance. Thus, for example, a court should be more vigilant in case involving a high level of apparent temptation and a low level of apparent resistance, than in a case involving a low level of apparent temptation and a high level of apparent resistance. Finally, the article explores common forms of temptation that tax advisors face when advising on tax-motivated transactions, and considers the circumstances when an advisor's response to those temptations can make an opinion unreliable.

Keywords: tax penalties, tax opinions, legal opinions, professional responsibility

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Moldenhauer, David T., Penalty Protection Opinions and Advisor Conflicts of Interest (May 8, 2012). 27 Akron. Tax. J. 55 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1822386 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1822386
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Finally
In [his role as manager of the family's complex finances,] he had helped implement a number of sophisticated taxplanning strategies, giving him sufficient knowledge and experience to know when a tax planning strategy was likely 'too good to be true' Murfam Farms, LLC ex. rel. Murphy v. United States, 94 Fed
some cases the courts have that the J&G strategy was , volume 235 Posted: 2010
I Alpha , L P
Crossref
Fed
, volume 280 Posted: 2010
]he spread transaction contributed to Jade was structured to yield and did yield tax benefits which Bergmann should have recognized as being 'too good to be true
Fed. Cl , volume 11 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
357,528
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies