Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Administration of Tax Expenditures: The Case of the Earned Income Tax Credit

North Carolina Law Review, Forthcoming

94 Pages Posted: 1 May 2011

Jonathan Schneller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 8, 2011

Abstract

This paper argues that in light of tax expenditures' political popularity and consistent growth, tax expenditure analysis should shift its ambitions from the elimination of tax expenditures to their reform. One particularly promising avenue for reform is administrative, as the tax system provides a poor platform for the administration of complex programs with policy objectives unrelated to revenue collection. This paper argues that scholars and policymakers should borrow "hybrid" administrative practices from non-tax programs and apply them to tax expenditures as necessary to advance a given tax expenditure's non-tax policy objectives. It explores this idea via an in-depth case study of the Earned Income Tax Credit.

Keywords: Tax Expenditures, Taxation, Earned Income Tax Credit

Suggested Citation:

Schneller, Jonathan, The Administration of Tax Expenditures: The Case of the Earned Income Tax Credit (April 8, 2011). North Carolina Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1827062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Id
At 116-17. In addition to these perverse incentives to generate erroneous EITC claims, there is also evidence that many paid preparers may prepare erroneous claims out of simple incompetence
Book
1138-39; see generally Danshera Cords, Paid Tax Preparers, Used Car Dealers, Refund Anticipation Loans, and the Earned Income Tax Credit: The Need to Regulate Tax Return Preparers and Provide more Free Alternatives
CASE. W. RES. L. REV Posted: 2009
See NATIONAL TAXPAYER ADVOCATE , volume 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
See Zelenak
Similarly, although the IRS's administrative mode is, by and large, nondiscretionary, scholars have noted that there are exceptions to this general rule, which create substantial opportunities for the IRS to exercise discretion. See Steve R. Johnson, An IRS Duty of Consistency: The Failure of Common Law Making and a Proposed Legislative Solution, 77 TENN
L. REV , volume 563 , p. 585 - 88 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,499
RANK
310,241
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies