Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limiting Benefit Shopping: Outline of a Measure to Counter Erosion of the Dividend Tax Base in the EU

EC Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 6, pp. 238-246

Posted: 10 May 2011

Maikel Evers

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law

Arnaud de Graaf

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR), Erasmus School of Law

Date Written: December 10, 2010

Abstract

This article is the final part of a triptych, each panel of which is independent of but also complements the other two. The theme of the triptych is what measures are possible - and impossible - in combating conduit arrangements under EU law. The first panel was published in EC Tax Review 2009/6 and deals with the issue of when Member States - specifically in their capacity as source state - can deny advantages to conduit companies under the EU freedom of establishment. In the analysis of ECJ case law led us to the conclusion that Member States have substantial discretion when seeking to combat conduit arrangements that are intended to minimize taxation on dividends.

The second panel, which was published in EC Tax Review 2010/5, examines the measures applied by four large Member States to combat dividend tax-saving arrangements involving EU conduit companies. In this panel we concluded that the motive test ub oarticular contained in the specific measures to combat EU dividend conduit arrangements was not compatible with the freedom of establishment. These large EU Member States were subsequently exceeding the discretionary powers available to them under EU law.

These conclusions prompted in this third and final panel, in which we set out the criteria that Member States can derive from ECJ case law on the scope of the freedom of establishment and also consider the legislative principles to be taken into account when designing a measure to combat EU dividend conduit arrangements. The result of this analysis is a balanced, EU-compliant measure enabling Member States to combat conduit arrangements and this ensure that dividend tax relief is available only in situations genuinely meriting such treatment and that no additional legal obstacles stand in the way of such situations. In this way, EU Member States will no linger have to contend, as has often been the case to date, with the downslide of efforts to promote capital mobility but will instead start seeing the positive effects of these efforts.

Keywords: Tax Abuse, EC Law, EU Law, Conduit Arrangements, Dividend Tax Avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Evers, Maikel and de Graaf, Arnaud, Limiting Benefit Shopping: Outline of a Measure to Counter Erosion of the Dividend Tax Base in the EU (December 10, 2010). EC Tax Review, Vol. 19, No. 6, pp. 238-246, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1829063
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies