Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Information Through Accounting Practice in Agricultural Sector-European Data Network

Journal of Social Sciences, Vol. 6, Vol. 2, pp. 221-228, 2010

8 Pages Posted: 4 May 2011

Athanasios Vazakidis

University of Macedonia

Stergios Athianos

International Hellenic University

Ekaterini Laskaridou

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

Present study investigated the gap between accounting practices and the magnitude role of accounting information in the agricultural sector. Problem statement: Factors for this gap are: Current general accounting rules do not reflect the particularities of farming, the need of farm management, rural development and sustainability. The introduction of International Accounting Standard 41 (IAS 41) by International Accounting Standard Committee, Approach: With the Farm Accounting Data Network (FADN) in Europe, could be key elements to improve the use of agriculture accounting. Results: After mandatory and optional adoption for listed and non-listed small size companies, of IAS’s respectively, by EU at 2005, we conclude that the main contribution of IAS 41 is to provide a strong conceptual framework in agricultural accounting practice. Conclusion: FADN is an experienced data network, which could be a guide for implementing of IAS 41. Finally, we unfold IAS 41 statutory and FADN procedures grounding an informative frame for farm development policy.

Keywords: Agriculture, IAS 41, FADN, farm accounting

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Vazakidis, Athanasios and Athianos, Stergios and Laskaridou, Ekaterini, The Importance of Information Through Accounting Practice in Agricultural Sector-European Data Network (2010). Journal of Social Sciences, Vol. 6, Vol. 2, pp. 221-228, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1829426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R Allen
Farm potential: High tech leads the average farmer's know-how , volume 88 Posted: 1994
J Argiles , E Slof
New opportunities for farm accounting
Eur. Account. Rev , volume 10 , p. 361 - 383 Posted: 2001
Crossref
F Andre
Towards a revival of economic education of farmers
Rural Econ , volume 177 , p. 53 - 56 Posted: 1987
P Booth , R Walker
Valuation of SGARAS in the wine industry: Time for sober reflection
Aus. Account. Rev , volume 13 , p. 52 - 60 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ferah Yıldız , Bayan Mohammad Mustafa Freihat , Ahmet Yanık , Ahmet İçöz , Ednan Ayvaz
The Impact of Liquidity, Current Ratio, and Working Capital on the Profitability of Canadian Agricultural Firms
HELIYON-D-23-19151 · 16 Pages · Posted: 8 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 100
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ferah Yıldız , Ahmet Yanık , Ahmet İçöz , Bayan Mohammad Mustafa Freihat
The Impact of Liquidity, Current Ratio, and Working Capital on the Profitability of Agricultural Firms: Canadian Case
HELIYON-D-23-56271 · 18 Pages · Posted: 27 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 137
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,874
RANK
62,378
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Agriculture, Natural Resources & Environmental Studies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring Technical Efficiency in the Greek Agricultural Sector

By Anthony N. Rezitis, Kostas Tsiboukas, ...

Market Deregulation, Trade Liberalization and Technical Efficiency in Bangladesh Agriculture: An Empirical Analysis

By Ruhul Salim and S. K. Amzad Hossain

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies