Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moody's Approach to Global Standard Adjustments in the Analysis of Financial Statements for Non-Financial Corporations

Moody's Investors Service, December 2010

22 Pages Posted: 5 May 2011

Mark LaMonte

Moody's Investors Service

Wesley Smyth

Moody's Corporation

Wallace Enman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jason M. Cuomo

Moody's Investors Service

Donald Robertson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 10, 2010

Abstract

Moody's adjusts financial statements to better reflect the underlying economics of transactions and events and to improve the comparability of financial statements. We compute credit-relevant ratios using adjusted data and base our debt ratings, in part, on those ratios.

This report discusses Moody's Standard Adjustments to financial statements prepared under US, Canadian and Japan accounting principles (these are collectively referred to as GAAP in this publication unless noted otherwise) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Those adjustments we discuss herein may be unique to GAAP or IFRS but may also be applied to other accounting jurisdictions collectively termed “local GAAP” whenever it is appropriate to do so in order to make these more comparable to statements of non-financial corporations that report under either GAAP or IFRS.

In addition to the Standard Adjustments, Moody's analysts may also make non-standard adjustments to financial statements for other matters to better reflect underlying economics and improve comparability with peer companies. For example, we may adjust financial statements to reflect estimates or assumptions that we believe are more suitable for credit analysis.

With the use of Standard Adjustments, Moody's research includes, for each rated company, the nature and amount of all Standard Adjustments and those other adjustments that we make based on publicly available information. We also published key financial ratios reflecting the adjustments we make to financial statements. Our financial ratios in most cases do not contain complicated add backs to the numerators and denominators, but instead are based on fully adjusted sets of financial statements.

Our adjustments do not imply that a company's financial statements fail to comply with GAAP or IFRS. Indeed, many of our adjustments are inconsistent with current accounting principles. Our goal is to enhance the analytical value of financial data for credit analysis and not to measure compliance with accounting rules.

Suggested Citation:

LaMonte, Mark and Smyth, Wesley and Enman, Wallace and Cuomo, Jason M. and Robertson, Donald, Moody's Approach to Global Standard Adjustments in the Analysis of Financial Statements for Non-Financial Corporations (December 10, 2010). Moody's Investors Service, December 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1831433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
822
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,574
RANK
68,546
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies