Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sharing the Group Benefits of a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base within Corporate Groups

37 Pages Posted: 10 May 2011

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Date Written: May 4, 2011

Abstract

The European Commission is currently working on a legislative draft to harmonise corporate income tax provisions for multinational groups of companies throughout the European Union. For that purpose the European Commission has installed a working group with the mission to draft a set of rules providing for a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB). Each group member will be responsible for determining a preliminary income (pre-consolidation income); these preliminary incomes will then be consolidated to form the CCCTB and finally this consolidated overall group income will be apportioned to each group member using a micro economic factor based formula. The situs state of the particular group member will then apply its statutory corporate tax rate on the apportioned tax base. This paper evaluates the effects of this prospective apportionment procedure on any given corporate group entity and finds that the share of the group’s income allocated to a particular entity using the apportionment formula does regularly not equal the pre-consolidation income of the respective group entity. These differences potentially lead to an over taxation or an under taxation of the particular group member. The benefits of the joint taxation therefore will only be accrued by profit-making group members. This paper furthermore analyzes group taxation systems currently applied by EU-Member States and OECD-Member States with respect to the methods and techniques used to allocate the benefits of the joint taxation within the whole group. The paper further finds that no such used technique is directly applicable for the CCCTB-concept and develops therefore a distinct benefit sharing method for CCCTB groups.

Keywords: CCCTB, Group Taxation, Tax Sharing

JEL Classification: H21, H25, F23, K34, M19, M41

Suggested Citation:

Petutschnig, Matthias, Sharing the Group Benefits of a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base within Corporate Groups (May 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1831103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1831103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Agúndez-Garcia
The Delineation and Apportionment of an EU Consolidated Tax Base for Multi-Jurisdictional Corporate Income Taxation: a Review of Issues and Options
Ana Posted: 2006
Christen Amby
CDFI 89b Group Taxation , p. 233 - 256 Posted: 2004
Bharat N Anand , Richard Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy
National Tax Journal , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 200 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Bartosz Bacia
Gruppenbesteuerung in Polen , volume 8 , p. 50 - 54 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,971
RANK
286,507
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies