Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Defining 'Partnership' for Federal Tax Purposes

Tax Notes, Vol. 131, No. 6, 2011

18 Pages Posted: 15 May 2011

Ethan Yale

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: May 9, 2011

Abstract

This report examines the case law and statutory history of the terms "partner" and "partnership," including the seminal Supreme Court cases of the late 1940s, the 1951 amendments that added the language now codified at section 704(e)(1), and the check-the-box regulations added in 1996. The central conclusions are as follows: (1) The existence of a partnership and the identity of its partners should be jointly determined under a single test. (2) The test for partnership validity and partner status most consistent with the text of the code, the case law, and the regulations is easier to pass than the test the government has argued for in recent litigation, and it does not depend on taxpayer purpose. (3) There is a strong argument that the check-the-box regulations harmonized the rules for partnerships and corporations regarding the tests used to assess the validity of business entities and to identify their owners. (4) The economic substance doctrine should not make purpose relevant to the question of entity validity. Copyright 2011 Ethan Yale. All rights reserved.

Keywords: partnership, partner, check-the-box, economic substance

Suggested Citation:

Yale, Ethan, Defining 'Partnership' for Federal Tax Purposes (May 9, 2011). Tax Notes, Vol. 131, No. 6, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1833736
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
T C Llc V. Commissioner , Memo
The taxpayer argued that the controlling test for partner status is section 704(e), and the government responded by arguing that the partnership in question was not capital intensive, so Culbertson controlled. The Tax Court applied Culbertson but held in the taxpayer's favor nevertheless. Like the taxpayer in Southgate Master Fund, the taxpayer in Virginia Historic Tax Credit Fund did not make an argument based on the check-the-box regulations even though, if accepted, that argument would have worked in its favor. The Fourth Circuit assumed arguendo that the partnership was valid and held in the commissioner's favor under section 707. See also Historic Boardwalk Hall LLC v
of the check-the-box regulations is Virginia Historic Tax Credit Fund Posted: 2001
Mckee
See section , volume 704 , issue 1
Crossref
Some of these doctrines and rules are arguably subsumed by the codified economic substance doctrine but to a degree that is currently unclear. For analyses of the relationship between the codified economic substance doctrine and the partnership antiabuse regulation, see Howard E. Abrams, ''Did Health Care Reform Repeal the Partnership Anti-Abuse Rule?'' 51 Tax Mgmt Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,026
RANK
220,537
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies