Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unregulated Markets for Audit Services

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper

32 Pages Posted: 8 May 2011 Last revised: 12 Jun 2013

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 25, 2011

Abstract

Certification of financial reports is tightly regulated with the intent to ensure the quality of this service. In order to place this market within a larger perspective, Part I of this paper presents archival data on certification activity in the economy. The finding of widespread availability of a diverse set of certifiers for most goods and services points to the competitive conditions that accounting firms may encounter as they attempt to expand their range of services. In Part II we examine an instance of audit firms unsuccessfully competing with non-traditional assurance providers of e-commerce privacy certification. Their failure appears to be attributable, at least in part, to the high cost of certification, inferior standards, and poor compliance by their clients. In Part III we document the types of certification reports issued by government agencies and private certification services. Private certification agencies issue more detailed and informative certification reports compared to government agencies. We discuss the implications of these findings for the market for audit services.

Keywords: Private audit, Regulation, Certification services, Audit reports

JEL Classification: M49, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Jamal, Karim and Sunder, Shyam, Unregulated Markets for Audit Services (April 25, 2011). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1834005 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1834005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
R Antle
Corporate financial reporting at the turn of the century
Journal of Accountancy, Centennial Issue , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 142 - 157 Posted: 1984
Tim Bush , Stella Fearnley , Shyam Sunder
Auditor liability reforms in UK and US: Who benefits? First Draft Posted: 2006-04-19
D J Cooper , K Robson
Accounting, professions and regulation: Locating the sites of professionalization. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 5 , p. 414 - 444 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M A Covaleski , M W Dirsmith , L Rittenberg
Jurisdictional disputes over professional work: The institutionalization of the global knowledge expert. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , p. 323 - 355 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,664
RANK
364,553
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies