Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Latest Foreign Affiliate Proposals: Selected Aspects

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 4, 2010

Posted: 9 May 2011

Francis Favre

KPMG LLP

Penny Woolford

KPMG LLP

Abstract

The "exempt surplus" and "underlying foreign tax" of a foreign affiliate are valuable tax attributes for a corporate taxpayer, because they allow the repatriation of foreign earnings free of Canadian tax. As a result, taxpayers over the years have devised various strategies to optimize the use of these balances. The Department of Finance has been concerned with the "inappropriate" preservation of exempt surplus for the better part of the last 10 years, and in 2002 and 2004, complex technical amendments were introduced to deal with these concerns. The proposals contained in the draft legislation released on December 18, 2009 and reissued in a slightly modified version on August 27, 2010 represent Finance's latest attempt to devise a solution that balances its objective of curtailing the "duplication" of exempt surplus on foreign affiliate reorganization transactions with taxpayers' need for rules that can be effectively applied in practice and do not result in undue complexity or impair the ability to effectively structure the foreign affiliate group.

In this article, the authors address two main aspects of these proposals: the "fill-the-hole" rule, which is designed to prevent the "circumvention" of blocking exempt deficits in a foreign affiliate chain; and the acquisition-of-control rules, which are designed to limit the ability to both claim a tax basis "bump" on the shares of a foreign affiliate and at the same time enjoy the benefits of surplus accrued prior to the acquisition of the Canadian target. The approach taken in these proposals is compared with and contrasted to the previous proposals contained in the February 27, 2004 technical amendments, and the proposals are evaluated in terms of their practical impact on taxpayers. This article thus attempts to provide a roadmap for these complex changes, to explain their impact on the surplus of foreign affiliates, and to contribute to a better understanding of the evolution of these rules.

Keywords: foreign affiliates, amendments, surplus, deficits, reorganization, elections

Suggested Citation:

Favre, Francis and Woolford, Penny, The Latest Foreign Affiliate Proposals: Selected Aspects. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 4, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836696
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies