Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Services PE Provision of the Canada-US Tax Treaty

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 4, 2010

Posted: 9 May 2011

Marsha L. Reid

Deloitte & Touche, LLP

Abstract

The service sector is the fastest-growing economic sector in the world today, and service exports are an important component of the Canadian economy. Canada's principal trading partner with respect to services is the United States.

The provision of cross-border services has significant tax implications. Canada, like most countries, taxes the income earned from business activities carried on within its territory. Under international tax treaties, however, this right is modified by the concept of the permanent establishment (PE). Treaties that follow the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) model tax convention define a PE as, essentially, "a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on." In a global service-based economy, however, substantial business activity can occur within a country's territory without any need for a fixed place of business.

The fifth protocol to the Canada-US income tax treaty, which came into force on December 15, 2008, amends article V of the treaty to deem services to be provided through a PE if certain conditions are met where the provision of the services would not otherwise create a fixed place of business. Canada is not the only country to be concerned that the traditional concept of a PE as a fixed place of business does not adequately address the taxation of cross-border services. For example, the UN model tax convention, which addresses the economic concerns of developing countries, has long included a services PE provision. In addition, in 2008, the commentary on article V of the OECD model was updated to include an alternative provision with respect to services for member countries that wish to include such additional taxation rights in their treaties.

The term "services" can encompass a broad range of activities; therefore, it is important that all businesses involved in cross-border trade between Canada and the United States be aware of and understand the new services PE provision of the Canada-US treaty. The consequences of having a services PE in Canada are significant. The profits attributable to the services PE will be subject to Canadian income tax. The services PE will also create a tax liability for non-resident employees working at the PE, which will result in additional compliance and compensation costs. There may be indirect tax consequences as well.

This article reviews the services PE provision of the Canada-US treaty in light of the OECD alternative provision and the UN model provision, discusses the implications for providers of cross-border services, and makes recommendations to assist businesses in monitoring compliance.

Keywords: permanent establishment, services, Canada-US, treaty, OECD

Suggested Citation:

Reid, Marsha L., The New Services PE Provision of the Canada-US Tax Treaty. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 4, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836723
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies