Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has Parliament Failed to Charge the 'Tax on Sift Partnerships'?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 59, No. 1, 2011

Posted: 9 May 2011

Brian Bloom

Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP - Montreal

Brandon Wiener

Thorsteinssons - Toronto

Abstract

Part IX.1 of the Income Tax Act attempts to impose a tax on a "specified investment flow-through" (SIFT) partnership, in order that such a partnership and its investors be taxed in a manner similar to a public corporation and its shareholders. The purported charge to tax in part IX.1 provides that a SIFT partnership "is liable to a tax." The authors argue that the term "liable to," from a textual and contextual perspective, connotes a possibility or probability of incurring some thing, rather than an obligation to do that thing. Acknowledging that it would be astonishing for Parliament to have failed to charge part IX.1 tax, the authors argue that, owing to the very nature of a charge, as well as from normative and constitutional perspectives, a charge to tax must be drafted unambiguously and must clearly impose an obligation to pay the tax, and that it would be inappropriate for a court employing the so-called modern rule of interpretation to rely on purpose to save a charge. The authors, referring to recent jurisprudence of the Federal Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Canada, further argue, focusing squarely on principles of interpretation, that the "modern" rule itself may not even justify having resort to purpose in this case to override conflicting text. They conclude by noting that there is Supreme Court precedent for denying a tax claim on the basis that the legislation in question failed to impose a tax even though the intention to tax was clear, and that Parliament should not adopt retroactive changes to the law as a fix for deficient drafting.

Keywords: Charges, partnerships, penalties, retroactive, statutory interpretation, tax legislation

Suggested Citation:

Bloom, Brian and Wiener, Brandon, Has Parliament Failed to Charge the 'Tax on Sift Partnerships'?. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 59, No. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836626
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies