Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizationals' Perceptions of the Financial Accounting - An Illustration of Bucaramanga City (Colombia)

Posted: 11 May 2011

Nohora García

National University of Colombia

Nelson Dueñas

National University of Colombia

Julianna Moreno

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 11, 2011

Abstract

This research did not try to verify or falsify hypothesis like in the pure sciences. The main objective was to get an idea of organizational perceptions related with some features on financial accounting (implementation, aims, disclosure of financial information and value added statement). These perceptions were well documented in different size firms on Bucaramanga City (Colombia).

Keywords: perceptions, qualitative research, financial information, information disclosure, value added statement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

García, Nohora and Dueñas, Nelson and Moreno, Julianna, Organizationals' Perceptions of the Financial Accounting - An Illustration of Bucaramanga City (Colombia) (May 11, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1838002
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,267
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies