Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information System of the Financial Institutions in Bangladesh: An Evaluation

The Bangladesh Accountant, October- December 2008

15 Pages Posted: 23 May 2011

Sumon Das

University of Dhaka - Department of Management

Shilpi Das

Jagannath University; Jagannath University

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

An effective accounting information system is essential to any organization’s long run success. Without a means of monitoring the events that occur, there would be no way determine how well the organization is performing. For this reason an attempt has been made in the present paper to evaluate the existing accounting information system (AIS) of the financial institutions in Bangladesh. To this end, a total of 91 responses were collected on a structured questionnaire from different sectors of financial institution. In combine, AIS is in the primitive stage i.e., there is no such well organized AIS in the financial institutions. They use computer generally for operating purposes. But the impact of computerized AIS is not significant. Data collection and data maintenance is more or less satisfactory, but little effort had been given in data management, data control and information generation. They should give more emphasis on internal control system, safeguarding of assets and information generation.

Suggested Citation:

Das, Sumon and Das, Shilpi and Das, Shilpi, Accounting Information System of the Financial Institutions in Bangladesh: An Evaluation (December 1, 2008). The Bangladesh Accountant, October- December 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1849103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
M Akter , T Mohammad , H Mahfuzul
The Effect of the Phase of System Development Life Cycle on the Performance of Accounting Information System Development: the Bangladesh Sceniario
ASA University Review , volume 1 , issue 1 Posted: 2007-07
Shikha Dey
Accounting Information System in Commercial Banks-An Evaluation in Bangladesh
The Bangladesh Accountant Posted: 2007-04
A Hawke
Security and Control in Information Systems (A guide for business and accounting)
Great Britain: T J International Ltd Posted: 2000
Arshad Islam
Computer based Management Information System and the Financial institutions in Bangladesh
Dhaka University Journal of Business Studies , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 2 Posted: 2000-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,696
RANK
32,022
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Search; Learning; Information Costs & Specific Knowledge; Expectation & Speculation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies