Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Strategic Integration of Sustainability Initiatives: Opportunities for Accounting Research

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2012

43 Pages Posted: 28 May 2011 Last revised: 10 Oct 2011

Brian Ballou

Miami University of Ohio - Department of Accountancy

Ryan Casey

University of Denver

Jonathan H. Grenier

Miami University - Department of Accountancy

Dan L. Heitger

Miami University of Ohio

Date Written: October 4, 2011

Abstract

We report the results of a survey of 178 corporate responsibility officers designed to explore how accountants can add value to sustainability initiatives. Specifically, we examine how three areas of accounting expertise (risk identification and measurement, financial reporting, and independent review/assurance) contribute to the strategic integration of sustainability initiatives (cf. Porter and Kramer 2006; IIRC 2011). Our results indicate that accounting professionals are rarely involved in sustainability initiatives, but their involvement is highly associated with strategic integration. This finding suggests that increased involvement likely would provide significant benefits to organizations and their stakeholders. We use these and other important insights into a series of research questions for future accounting or interdisciplinary research in sustainability. These insights about accountants’ ability to enhance the strategic integration of sustainability initiatives also should be of interest to accounting and consulting firms as they design and market their sustainability services.

Suggested Citation:

Ballou, Brian J. and Casey, Ryan J. and Grenier, Jonathan H. and Heitger, Dan L., Exploring the Strategic Integration of Sustainability Initiatives: Opportunities for Accounting Research (October 4, 2011). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1852756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Why do private companies demand an audit? A case for organizational loss of control
Journal of Accounting, Auditing, & Finance , volume 8 , p. 31 - 52 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Accounting for Sustainability. London: The Prince's Charities Posted: 2008
The Prince's Accounting for Sustainability Project: Embedding Sustainability into Decision-making and Reporting Processes. www.accountingforsustainability.org. London: The Prince's Charities Posted: 2011
A Adams , S Fries , R Simnett
The journey towards integrative reporting. Accountant's Digest Posted: 2011-05
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
794
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,110
RANK
71,764
11 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Nonfinancial Measures to Assess Fraud Risk

By Joseph F. Brazel, Keith L. Jones, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies