Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming Nonprofit Exemption Requirements

Fordham Journal of Corporate and Financial Law, Vol. 17

70 Pages Posted: 31 May 2011 Last revised: 28 Jun 2014

Peter Molk

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This Article proposes a reform for nonprofit exemption and unrelated business income tax. Current tax law provides unclear guidance and requires exempt organizations to risk their entire exemptions on this guidance, leading them to make the socially inefficient choice to use for-profit subsidiaries to preserve their exemptions. Reforming the tax law will solve this inefficiency while providing exempt nonprofits with the desirable option to undertake efficient nonexempt activities to augment their operating budgets. This reform is particularly important in light of changes to the healthcare field; reform will enable exempt healthcare organizations to offset rising health costs and decreased reimbursements with other revenue opportunities.

Keywords: nonprofit, UBIT, tax, corporate organization

JEL Classification: H21, H25, H40, H41, K34, l30, l31

Suggested Citation:

Molk, Peter, Reforming Nonprofit Exemption Requirements (2012). Fordham Journal of Corporate and Financial Law, Vol. 17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1853426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Id
Id. 256. In addition, as enforcement increases, so too does the amount of precedent and guidance that helps organizations appropriately characterize their income, making it less costly for them to make these decisions. 257. Data used for this Figure was taken from the IRS website. SOl Tax Stats Exempt Organizations' Unrelated Business Income (ETBD) Ta Statistics
IRS.GOv Posted: 2011-10-17
Data used for this figure was taken from the IRS website. SO Tax Stats Charities & Other Tax-Exempt Organizations Statistics
IRS.Gov Posted: 2011-10-17
E G See , &amp; Malani , Posner
It would also be particularly attractive because it would allow exempt nonprofits to efficiently outsource exempt activities to for-profit organizations that could perform them cheaper. For example, with exemptions for for-profit organizations, we would not require that the parking lot operator discussed in supra notes 47-48 be a nonprofit to obtain a derivative exemption, so long as he undertook parking operations for an exempt museum that would be free from UBIT if it operated its parking lot directly. Allowing an exemption for for-profit operators would open up competition to more organizations and ensure that exempt nonprofits did not waste resources on an activity that could be performed more efficiently by another organization. 278. Google.org is a prominent example. Google.org conducts Google's charitable activities, but unlike most charitable organizations is a for-profit. See Katie Hafner, Philanthropy Google's 9'av: Aot the Usual
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2006-05-14
James R See , Jr Hines
The Attack on Nonprofit Status: A Charitable Assessment, 108 MICH
L. REv Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
475,660
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies