Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Planning Opportunities with the Sec. 121 Partial Exclusion

The Tax Adviser, Volume 39, Issue 8, pp. 508-514, August 2008

Posted: 11 Jul 2012

Robert Barrett Cockrum

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Maria T. Caban-Garcia

University of South Florida, St. Petersburg Campus

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

On May 6, 1997, Congress ended the once-in-a-lifetime, over-age-55 exclusion for the sale of a primary personal residence. It is unclear whether the purpose of Sec 121's change was to recognize the more mobile lifestyle that the society had developed since the old Sec 121 was passed in 1964 or to provide a tax break for homeowners who were experiencing significant appreciation in their primary residence. In order to explore the planning opportunities available under the partial exclusion rule, it is first necessary to appreciate the basic rules of Sec. 121 and how to compute the partial exclusion exemption. The article then addresses the three justifications for applying the partial exclusion rule, including a discussion of each basic justification and the safe harbor for each. The article concludes with observations about the current IRS examples and how they appear to be more flexible than what the partial exclusion regulations seem to state.

Suggested Citation:

Cockrum, Robert Barrett and Caban-Garcia, Maria T., Planning Opportunities with the Sec. 121 Partial Exclusion (2008). The Tax Adviser, Volume 39, Issue 8, pp. 508-514, August 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1855344
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies