Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Multiple-Entity Planning to Reduce Self-Employment Taxes: Recent Cases Demonstrate the Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 13, No. 2, p. 31, 2011

7 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2011 Last revised: 11 Jun 2011

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

Tax practitioners use S corporations to mitigate self-employment taxes by classifying only a portion of entity distribution as wages and classifying the rest as dividends. This article analyzes recent cases where courts have invalidated attempts to lessen the burden of employment taxes by multiple-entity planning with the use of pass-through entities. This article focuses on two common practitioner flaws -- (1) deficiencies in salary setting procedures, and (2) deficiencies in multiple-entity planning. The article demonstrates the importance of setting a reasonable salary by documented procedures in S corporation taxation. The article also demonstrates how multiple-entity planning can be more effective by properly documenting and respecting the individual identities of the entities.

Keywords: tax, law, S corporation, pass through, subchapter S, accounting, tax planning, income tax, C corporation, limited liability company, LLC

Suggested Citation:

Todd, Timothy M., Multiple-Entity Planning to Reduce Self-Employment Taxes: Recent Cases Demonstrate the Pitfalls and How to Avoid Them (April 1, 2011). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 13, No. 2, p. 31, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1856583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
See Code , Secs
, p. 1401 - 1403
Crossref
Self-Employment Contributions Act of 1954 (chapter 2, subtitle A, Internal Revenue Code of 1954). Code Secs , p. 1401 - 1403
Code Sec
Posted: 1403
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,328
RANK
43,301
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies