Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Seven Myths of Corporate Governance

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-16

9 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2011 Last revised: 24 Jul 2013

David F. Larcker

Stanford Graduate School of Business; Stanford University - Hoover Institution; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Brian Tayan

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

In recent years, there has been much discussion over how to improve governance systems broadly. In the process, certain myths have developed that continue to be accepted, despite a lack of robust supporting evidence. These myths include the beliefs that: 1. The structure of the board always tells you something about the quality of the board; 2. CEOs in the U.S. are overpaid; 3. Pay for performance does not exist in CEO compensation contracts; 4. Companies are prepared to replace the CEO if needed; 5. Regulation improves corporate governance; 6. The voting recommendations of proxy advisory firms are correct; 7. Best practices are the solution to bad governance.

We examine each of these myths in closer detail and explain why they are false. So long as these myths are accepted by practitioners and the public, how can we expect managerial behavior and firm performance to improve?

Read the attached Closer Look and let us know what you think!

Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance and Leadership: The Closer Look series is a collection of short case studies through which we explore topics, issues, and controversies in corporate governance. In each study, we take a targeted look at a specific issue that is relevant to the current debate on governance and explain why it is so important. Larcker and Tayan are co-authors of the book Corporate Governance Matters, and A Real Look at Real World Corporate Governance.

Keywords: corporate governance, board of directors, governance structure, executive compensation, pay-for-performance, say-on-pay, CEO succession, corporate governance regulations, corporate governance research, corporate governance best practices

JEL Classification: G30, G34, G39

Suggested Citation:

Larcker, David F. and Tayan, Brian, Seven Myths of Corporate Governance (June 1, 2011). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Closer Look Series: Topics, Issues and Controversies in Corporate Governance No. CGRP-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1856869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1856869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,830
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,390
RANK
4,496
22 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Codes of Good Governance

By Ruth V. Aguilera and Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra

Institutional and Strategic Choice Perspectives on Board Involvement in the Strategic Decision Process

By William Q. Judge and Carl P. (dean) Zeithaml

Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger?

By Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra and Ruth V. Aguilera

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies