Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Winn and the Inadvisability of Constitutionalizing Tax Expenditure Analysis

Yale Law Journal Online, Vol. 121, p. 25, 2011

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 339

6 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2011

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2011

Abstract

Tax expenditure analysis, despite its contribution to tax policy debate, is ill-suited as a tool of constitutional decisionmaking. Sometimes tax provisions are, for constitutional purposes, equivalent to direct monetary outlays; sometimes they are not. That equivalence can only be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, considering the nature of the specific tax provision and the particular constitutional clause at issue. Contrary to the approach of the Winn dissent, the Court is ill-advised to invoke tax expenditure analysis as a tool of constitutional decisionmaking. At the end of the day, we do not know what a tax expenditure is.

Keywords: tax expenditure, Winn, Flast, tax credit, direct expenditure

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., Winn and the Inadvisability of Constitutionalizing Tax Expenditure Analysis (May 1, 2011). Yale Law Journal Online, Vol. 121, p. 25, 2011, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 339, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,057
RANK
580,215
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies