Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Which the Deader Hand? A Counter to the American Law Institute’s Proposed Revival of Dying Perpetuities Rules

Tulane Law Review, Vol. 86, p. 559

63 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2011 Last revised: 27 Feb 2012

Scott Andrew Shepard

Independent

Date Written: June 4, 2011

Abstract

Encouraged primarily by a fluke in federal estate and gift tax law, more than half of the states have either effectively or entirely abolished their rules against perpetuities in the past two decades. The American Law Institute, deeply troubled by this development, has adopted for its Third Restatement a proposed rule against perpetuities that would essentially prohibit conditional gifts to continue for the benefit of parties born more than two generations after the transferor.

The ALI’s efforts are misguided. The rule against perpetuities was the product of a legal, political and social age very different than our own. It was designed in large part to address concerns, such as inalienability conditions, that do not effectively exist in modern law, either because the evolution of property structures has dealt with these problems by other means, or because changes in political and social structure have drained the problematicity from the concerns. While some of the old concerns do remain, in modified form, the RAP provides a poor response to them. It offers a medieval barber’s amputation saw where the job demands a modern surgeon’s scalpel. Though both may save the patient from the illness, the scalpel will do a more exact and reliable job, with far less collateral damage. This article demonstrates where the ALI went wrong, and fashions the scalpel required to deal with modern iterations of dead-hand control and related problems.

Keywords: Property, Rule Against Perpetuities, Dead Hand, Trusts, Estates, Real Property, Reform

Suggested Citation:

Shepard, Scott Andrew, Which the Deader Hand? A Counter to the American Law Institute’s Proposed Revival of Dying Perpetuities Rules (June 4, 2011). Tulane Law Review, Vol. 86, p. 559, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1857926
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
E G See , Tate
, p. 611 - 631
See Sterk, supra note 78 , p. 2100 - 2101
See Id
, p. 2117 - 2135
See Dukeminier , &amp; Krier
(adopting wait and see in Pennsylvania in 1947, with five other states following by , p. 1305 - 1311 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,005
RANK
339,352
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies