Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Capital Gains Anomaly: Commissioner v. Banks and the Proceeds from Lawsuits

St. Mary's Law Journal, Vol. 43, p. 113, 2011

74 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2011 Last revised: 28 Jan 2012

Steve Black

Texas Tech University School of Law

Katherine D. Black

Utah Valley University

Michael D. Black

Parr Waddoups Brown Gee & Loveless

Date Written: January 6, 2011

Abstract

When a litigant receives an award of damages or agrees to a settlement of a lawsuit for which the litigant and her attorney have agreed to a contingent fee, a portion of those damages or the settlement is paid to the attorney. For income tax purposes, there is a question of whether the litigant should include the portion paid to her attorney as her own income.

The question is not merely academic. In a tax system that does not always allow the litigant to deduct her attorney's fees, the litigant may end up paying tax on money that she never sees. In some cases, that tax can exceed the amount of money she gets from the lawsuit – making the litigant poorer by having pursued the suit at all.

The U.S. Supreme Court heard two cases regarding inclusion in income of contingent attorney’s fees, Commissioner v. Banks and Commissioner v. Banaitas. Although the cases seemed to resolve the question of including the fee paid to the attorney, the Court created an anomaly when they stated that the "income-generating asset is the cause of action that derives from the plaintiff's legal injury." Taking their words at face value, it appears the Supreme Court has made it possible to characterize all income from lawsuits or settlements as capital gain.

Keywords: attorneys fees, capital gains, taxation, income, damages

JEL Classification: H2, H24, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Black, Steve and Black, Katherine D. and Black, Michael D., A Capital Gains Anomaly: Commissioner v. Banks and the Proceeds from Lawsuits (January 6, 2011). St. Mary's Law Journal, Vol. 43, p. 113, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1858776
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
104-188, § 1605(a), 110 Stat. 1755, 1838 , volume 104 Posted: 1996
Crossref
I R C See
) (limiting exclusion of personal injuries to physical injuries and sickness). 445. Brief for Ass'n of Trial Lawyers of America as Amicus Curiae Supporting Respondents at 7, Commissioner v , volume 104 , p. 3 - 907 Posted: 2004
U
, volume 443 Posted: 1926
Crossref
United States v. Cerecedo Hermanos y Compania , volume 252 Posted: 1907
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
579
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,382
RANK
108,060
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies