Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Information Content of Going Concern Opinions: The Effects of SAS Numbers 58 and 59

Journal of Asset Management, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2003

Posted: 10 Jun 2011

Mark Schaub

Stephen F. Austin State University

Michael J. Highfield

Mississippi State University - Department of Finance and Economics

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The information content of audit opinions has been scrutinised in the past. Research and discussions attempted to ascertain whether audit opinions contain useful information for financial statement users and whether accountants are qualified to make accurate assessments about a firm’s viability as a going concern. Statements on Auditing Standards (SAS) 58 and 59 eliminated the, "subject to," audit opinion because of doubts whether such opinions contained useful information. Instead, a, "subject to," qualified opinion is communicated as, "special language," included in unqualified audit opinions. Evidence is provided that the audit opinion name change in 1988, which did away with the, "subject to," qualified designation of going concern opinions (GCOs), was merely cosmetic and did not affect the information content of those opinions when the GCOs with, "special language," are announced in the financial media.

Keywords: going concern opinions, information transfers, audit opinion information, Information Content

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Schaub, Mark and Highfield, Michael J., On the Information Content of Going Concern Opinions: The Effects of SAS Numbers 58 and 59 (2003). Journal of Asset Management, Vol. 4, No. 1, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1862163
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies