Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Markets Tax Credit – The Path for Financial Institution Participation

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 75-97, 2011

23 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2011

Anthony Masino

East Tennessee State University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

In the United States, utilizing economic incentives to spur business growth and relocation are almost as old as the Country itself. The frequency of incentives to spur capital investment and job creation in low to moderate income communities has increased over the last 20 years. Congress established the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program as part of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000 to encourage investors to make investments in impoverished, low-income communities (LICs) that traditionally lack access to capital. In December 2010, Congress renewed the NMTC program for an additional two years based on intense lobbying by investors, lenders and non-profits.

Based on the historical awards of the NMTC, financial institutions (especially those that coordinate efforts with local non-profits that cater to the economic stability of LICs) continue to maintain an advantage in receiving awards (directly or indirectly). The renewed program continues to insure support of financial institution and non-profit coordination. The last several years of the program has seen a concentrated effort by program administrators to award program benefits to those Applicants that coordinate LIC efforts in an attempt to revitalize and stabilize each local economy.

With the extension of the NMTC program with additional compliance requirements, it appears financial institutions will continue to grab the lion’s share of NMTC allocations. Those financial institutions that partner with local or regional non-profits in pursuit of sustainable lending opportunities in LICs will be at a distinct advantage.

This article addresses program background, the application process to receive a NMTC award and favorable conditions for financial institutions’ to receive a NMTC award.

Keywords: New Markets Tax Credit, Community Renewal Tax Relief Act, low income communities

JEL Classification: D6, G2, H2, K34, L5, L85, M4

Suggested Citation:

Masino, Anthony, The New Markets Tax Credit – The Path for Financial Institution Participation (2011). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 75-97, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1863366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
New Markets Tax Credit CDE Certification Application
Crossref
New Markets Tax Credit Posted: 2010-01
Crossref
Id
New Markets Tax Credit Allocation Application
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,552
RANK
658,539
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies