Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Life after Mayo: Silver Linings

Tax Notes, Vol. 131, p. 1251, June 2011

14 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2011 Last revised: 24 Jan 2012

Patrick J. Smith

Ivins, Phillips & Barker

Date Written: June 20, 2011

Abstract

Most tax practitioners interpreted the Supreme Court's Mayo decision to mean that it is now virtually impossible for taxpayers to prevail in challenges to tax regulations and that the IRS can therefore do almost anything it wants. However, nothing in Mayo suggests the Supreme Court intended that result.

To the contrary, the Supreme Court's clear message in Mayo is that tax law and the IRS are governed by the same rules that apply to every other area of federal administration. That provides a powerful tool for taxpayers to use in challenging IRS actions based on administrative law rules providing limits on agency discretion that taxpayers have traditionally not even attempted to invoke against the IRS. Those limitations include the Administrative Procedure Act's arbitrary and capricious standard and its requirements for reasoned decision-making and reasoned explanations of agency decisions, the general presumption against retroactivity in regulations, the Supreme Court's recent case law narrowing the classification of requirements for bringing suit that are put in the restrictive category of being jurisdictional, the law providing for exceptions to exhaustion of administrative remedies requirements, and the principle that agency guidance other than regulations is given weight only according to its power to persuade.

Keywords: Mayo, Chevron, Mead, Brand X, State Farm, deference, statutory interpretation

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Patrick J., Life after Mayo: Silver Linings (June 20, 2011). Tax Notes, Vol. 131, p. 1251, June 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1866497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,606
RANK
409,562
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Supreme Court Justice and 'Boring' Cases

By Neil M. Richards

A Problem of Remedy: Responding to Treasury's (Lack of) Compliance with Administrative Procedure Act Rulemaking Requirements

By Kristin E. Hickman

Four of the Hardest Ethical Questions for a Government Lawyer

By Michelle M. Kwon

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies