Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Financial Leader’s Guide to Enhancing Long-Term Business Sustainability: ControllerFOCUS Model

Society of Interdisciplinary Business Research (SIBR) 2011 Conference on Interdisciplinary Business Research

30 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2011

Yanyong Thammatucharee

Assumption University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The ControllerFOCUS concept was developed by Thammatucharee to provide controllers a strategic tool which will link together the operations and accounting objectives to accomplish the long-term business goals (Thammatucharee, 2009). The purpose of this paper is to provide a review of the construct of ControllerFOCUS concept, and to demonstrate the test result of the Controllership Index (CI) based on the researcher’s intervention in the case companies. The action research methodology was used at three selected companies through the questionnaire and observations. The results from this study showed fascinating levels of the controllership index indicating room for improvement in relevant areas, which supports the calls for changing roles of controller in supporting the business strategy implementation. For future research, the findings raise questions about the reliability of the CI and the possibility for adoption as a key performance indicator of the controller and the company performance for mutual strategic success.

Keywords: Controller, Business unit controller, Marketing controller, Brand controller, Controllership, Holistic Controllership, Controllership index, ControllerFOCUS, Accounting, Holistic accounting, Accounting strategy

Suggested Citation:

Thammatucharee, Yanyong, A Financial Leader’s Guide to Enhancing Long-Term Business Sustainability: ControllerFOCUS Model (2011). Society of Interdisciplinary Business Research (SIBR) 2011 Conference on Interdisciplinary Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1867863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1867863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
M G Alles , S Datar
How do you stop the books being cooked? A management-control perspective on financial accounting standard setting and the section 404 requirements of Sabanes-Oxley Act
International Journal of Disclosure and Governance , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 119 - 137 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K M Baird , G L Harrison , R C Reeve
Adoption of activity management practices: a note on the extent of adoption and the influence of organizational and culture factors
Management Accounting Research , volume 15 , p. 383 - 399 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Bahrami , S Evans
Super-Flexibility for Real-Time Adaptation: Perspective from Silicon Valley
California Management Review , volume 53 , issue 3 , p. 21 - 39 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Baldvinsdottir , J Burns , H Norreklit , R W Scapens
The image of accountants: from bean counters to extreme accountants
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 6 , p. 858 - 882 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,000
RANK
499,164
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Conjectures Regarding Empirical Managerial Accounting Research

By Jerold L. Zimmerman

In Search of Management Accounting Theory

By Teemu Malmi and Markus Granlund

Innovation in Management Accounting: The Needs of World-Class Firms

By Shokrollah Khajavi and Amin Nazemi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies