Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Untaxed King of South Beach: Lebron James and the NBA Salary Cap

San Diego Law Review, 2011

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 340

32 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2011

Mitchell L. Engler

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

In contrast to major league baseball, the National Basketball Association has a salary cap designed to provide every team an equal and fair chance of competing for the championship. The Miami Heat's recent incredible success in signing the game's three most hotly desired free agents, including mega-stars Lebron James and Dwyane Wade, therefore flies in the face of the NBA's attempted level playing field. How could one team so outmaneuver all the others in the sport which tried to eliminate such uncompetitive results via a salary cap?

As discussed in this Essay, the answer lies in the law of unintended consequences and perverse incentives. Some NBA teams are located in more attractive jurisdictions with nicer amenities or lower costs, such as taxes. In particular, Miami provides a highly-favorable climate both as to weather and taxes as Florida does not have a state income tax. In the absence of any salary cap limitations, teams in higher-tax jurisdictions could compete better with Miami for free agent players by offering higher salaries to offset the extra tax. But the NBA salary cap, by its very terms, blocks this usual free-market response.

Having flagged this perverse and unintended benefit to the no-tax clubs, this Essay then proposes an appropriate solution. Rather than scrapping the salary cap and restoring a competitive advantage to the wealthier clubs, a state tax adjustment to the cap amounts would remove the rich clubs' advantage without substituting an unintended benefit to the no-tax clubs. The salary cap amounts of no-tax teams simply should be reduced by a percentage equal to the highest state tax rate of any NBA team. After making this simple adjustment, this Essay then refutes more sophisticated arguments as to why the proposed adjustment might go too far. Among other points, this Essay highlights how Miami‘s tax advantage might extend beyond just Lebron's salary to include his extensive endorsement income as well. Expanding the analysis to such deeper level therefore highlights an even greater need for a state tax adjustment to the NBA salary cap.

Keywords: salary cap, state income tax, tax rates, NBA, incumbency rule, road income tax

Suggested Citation:

Engler, Mitchell L., The Untaxed King of South Beach: Lebron James and the NBA Salary Cap (June 1, 2011). San Diego Law Review, 2011, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 340, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1868971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Ric Bucher
Heat Stars Sign Six-Year Deals
ESPN.COM Posted: 2011-07-10
(refuting California Tax Reform Association's claim that -[s]tate income taxes have no impact on the location of the wealthy‖ (internal quotation marks omitted)). Fox refutes the claim by stating that -[p]erhaps CTRA never heard of the tennis playing Williams sisters who grew up in Compton and now call no-income tax Florida home Posted: 2005-07-28
See Charles Pierce
discussing Orlando's success in the marketplace as due to -Florida's lack of a state income tax and the multifarious attractions‖ of the city
Pressure? What Pressure?, Esquire , volume 12 Posted: 2000-12-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
631
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,506
RANK
96,735
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies