Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perceptions of Management Accounting Services

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 111-123, 2011

13 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2011

Kenton B. Walker

University of Wyoming

Gary Fleischman

University of Wyoming

Eric N. Johnson

Independent

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Internal service quality is important to management accounting (MA) service providers and users to promote good communications, ensure high standards of service, and to support good organizational decision making. However, there is little research concerning MA quality issues despite the prevalence of service quality research in other service areas. The purpose of this paper is to investigate differences, and their sources, between perceptions of management accounting services as reported by accounting service users and providers in a corporate organization. We collected qualitative interview data from managers and staff from different functional units about specific MA services by asking questions about user-provider perceptions of MA services in the areas of communication and satisfaction while applying the internal customer service perspective. We supplement our analysis with quantitative data based on the interviews. Our findings show evidence of user-provider perception gaps and provide a foundation for management actions to improve MA service quality.

Keywords: Management accounting services, user-provider perceptions, service satisfaction, service quality

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Walker, Kenton B. and Fleischman, Gary and Johnson, Eric N., Perceptions of Management Accounting Services (2011). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 111-123, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1873514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and organizations: realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
Iii Aldhizer , G R Turner , L D Shank , M D
Determinants of consulting service quality for accounting and nonaccounting service providers
Journal of Information Systems , volume 16 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Bharati , D Berg
Service quality from the other side: information systems management at Duquesne light
International Journal of Information Management , volume 25 , p. 367 - 380 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Bhattacherjee
Understanding information systems continuance: an expectation-confirmation model
MIS Quarterly , volume 25 , p. 351 - 370 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,410
RANK
241,875
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Cross-Sectional Field Studies in Management Accounting Research - Closing the Gaps between Surveys and Case Studies

By Anne M. Lillis and Julia Mundy

Towards a More Comprehensive Understanding of the Roles of Management Accountants

By Sean M. Byrne and Bernard Pierce

Business Unit Controller Involvement in Management: An Empirical Study in the Netherlands

By J.a. Ten Rouwelaar, Jan Bots, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies