Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Three Cheers for Passthrough Taxation

Tax Notes, p. 1353, June 2011

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 237

10 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2011

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: June 27, 2011

Abstract

This report addresses recent suggestions by the Obama administration, lawmakers, and others that some passthrough entities should be taxed as corporations. It argues that passthrough taxation is the correct regime, from a technical standpoint, for many business arrangements. Applying an entity tax to those structures would be inappropriate. The report argues that an entity tax would violate notions of equity by treating members of passthrough entities differently from individuals. Next it demonstrates that a tax on passthrough entities would shift a greater share of the tax burden to middle-income individuals. Finally, the report encourages the administration and lawmakers to increase the tax burden of the super wealthy before making changes that increase the tax burden of those in the middle.

Keywords: passthrough taxation, income distribution, entity taxation, partnership allocations

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Three Cheers for Passthrough Taxation (June 27, 2011). Tax Notes, p. 1353, June 2011, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 237, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1873352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
$73,008 , volume 729
Crossref
$9 , volume 738
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
RANK
328,705
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies