Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CPA’s Duties Toward Fraud Detection and Reporting: Taiwan Regulations

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 41-54, 2011

14 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2011

Chih-shun Hsu

Tamkang University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This paper aims to review CPAs’ responsibilities for fraud detection and reporting. It will first explore, through literature analysis and review of Taiwan regulation, the accounting professions’ changing stand toward CPAs’ responsibilities to detect and report fraud. In addition, Taiwan’s existing laws and profession promulgations on CPAs’ fraud-related responsibilities will be examined and discussed. Finally, the 2002 US Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s impact on Taiwan CPAs’ duties in fraud detection and Taiwan government’s responses to such duties by expectations gap will be examined.

Keywords: Auditor’s responsibility, fraud detection, auditing regulations, audit profession

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Hsu, Chih-shun, CPA’s Duties Toward Fraud Detection and Reporting: Taiwan Regulations (2011). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 3, pp. 41-54, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1874258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Arthur Andersen , &amp; Co
Public Accounting in Transition: American Shareholders View the Role of Independent Accountants and the Corporate Reporting Controversy Posted: 1974
C D Baron , D A Johnson , D G Searfoss , C H Smith
Uncovering corporate irregularities: are we closing the expectations gap?
Journal of Accountancy , volume 144 , issue 4 , p. 56 - 66 Posted: 1977
G W Beck
The role of the auditor in modern society: an empirical appraisal
Accounting and Business Research , volume 4 , p. 117 - 122 Posted: 1973
Crossref
S E Bonner , V Z Palmrose , M S Young
Fraud type and auditor litigation: an analysis of SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 503 - 533 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,636
RANK
349,147
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Global Business Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies