Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Did Exit Pricing Under FASB 157 Contribute to the Subprime Mortgage Crisis?

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 97-104

8 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2011

Peter Harris

New York Institute of Technology

Paul R. Kutasovic

New York Institute of Technology

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The current financial crisis has revived the debate surrounding fair value accounting especially in the case of illiquid markets and for assets that lack marketability. Many analysts argue that it was issuance of FASB 157 (ASC 820) and the use of fair value accounting that caused the financial crisis to spread from the subprime mortgage market to the rest of the economy. The move by FASB to present all financial assets at fair market value is appropriate as this improves the reliability, relevance and transparency of the financial statements. Presenting assets at historical cost when unrealized losses are material is not proper financial reporting and distorts the current financial position of a firm. However, the exit price requirement under FASB 157 is too strict and results in an overly conservative financial presentation. The use of exit prices to define fair value was the problem, had a negative effect on the economy, and contributed to the financial crisis as it forced firms to overstate their losses. Instead of exit prices, the IFRS definition of fair market value should be adopted. The IFRS definition does not use entry or exit price but is an arm’s length exchange price between unrelated parties.

Keywords: Fair-Value Accounting, FASB 157, ASC 820, IFRS Definition of Fair Value, Mark-to-Market, Subprime Mortgage Crisis

JEL Classification: G10, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Peter and Kutasovic, Paul R., Did Exit Pricing Under FASB 157 Contribute to the Subprime Mortgage Crisis? (2010). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 97-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1874157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
S Block
The Liquidity Discount in Valuing Privately Owned Companies
Journal of Applied Finance Posted: 2007-10
P Brockman , D Chung , X Yan
Block Ownership, Trading Activity and Market Liquidity
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 4 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Fair Value Measurement Posted: 2006-09
P Harris , P Kutasovic
FASB 157 and the Subprime Crisis
International Journal of Economic Research Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,770
RANK
381,120
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence

By Richard S. Ruback and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers

By Gregor Andrade, Mark L. Mitchell, ...

Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions?

By Randall Morck, Andrei Shleifer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies