Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Time Audit – It is the Time to Act?

U of Michigan Law & Econ, Empirical Legal Studies Center Paper No. 11-010

U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 242

5 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2011 Last revised: 13 Jul 2011

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Oz Halabi

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: June 28, 2011

Abstract

The U.S. is facing one of its hardest economic crises. Its economy has not recovered from the 2008 downturn, and the light at the end of the tunnel is far, far away. The government and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) are seeking revenue sources in order to reduce its budget deficit. However, raising the income tax rates is politically difficult and may lead to further loss of jobs. In this political situation, it is important to try to find ways to raise more revenue without raising tax rates. One possibility of doing so is “real time audit”: Auditing transactions when they occur, rather than months or years later.

Keywords: tax administration, audit

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Halabi, Oz, Real Time Audit – It is the Time to Act? (June 28, 2011). U of Michigan Law & Econ, Empirical Legal Studies Center Paper No. 11-010, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 242, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1875881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1875881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,085
RANK
222,859
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies