Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS High-Wealth Industry Group: Evaluation of Wealth Squad IDR

Tax Notes, p. 1, November 2010

6 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2011

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: November 1, 2010

Abstract

Analysis of an IRS High-Wealth Industry Group and analyzes their standardized Information Document Request. The IRS is attempting to coordinate examiners and related specialists in an effort to unwind the complex legal structures behind sophisticated domestic and foreign business and investment arrangements of high-wealth individuals. Since there is no better time to prepare for a later examination than when the documents are being drafted and executed, practitioners specializing in transactional and wealth transfer matters should carefully review the following analysis of a Wealth Squad IDR.

Keywords: IRS, IDR, audit, LB&I, LMSB, tax compliance, IRS examination

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., IRS High-Wealth Industry Group: Evaluation of Wealth Squad IDR (November 1, 2010). Tax Notes, p. 1, November 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1877283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,549
RANK
449,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies