Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Governance, and the Crisis: Is Risk the Missing Link?

27 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2011

Michel Magnan

Concordia University - Department of Accountancy

Garen Markarian

HEC - University of Lausanne

Date Written: February 6, 2011

Abstract

The period 2007-2010 marked one of the most severe economic and financial crises in living memory. In this paper we focus on two of accounting’s key functions within organizations and markets, financial reporting and governance. In this respect we find that accounting exhibited shortcomings in its structural foundation and in its application. Salient is its failure to account for uncertainty and to adequately capture, measure, and disclose the impact of risk-taking on the financial statements, thus undermining their reliability and, potentially, their relevance as indicators of economic performance. Consequently, boards were provided with misleading numbers, and compensation was based on paper profits that did not materialize. As such, accounting carried undesirable elements that interacted with other malicious market characteristics such as excessive risk taking by bankers, and failure in regulatory and market oversight, thus potentially contributing to deteriorating economic conditions. The paper concludes with suggestions for further research in this area.

Keywords: crisis and accounting, fair value accounting, accounting and risk

JEL Classification: M41, M43, G20, J33

Suggested Citation:

Magnan, Michel and Markarian, Garen, Accounting, Governance, and the Crisis: Is Risk the Missing Link? (February 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1879869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1879869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
V Acharya , P Schnabl , G Suarez
Securitization without risk transfer, NBER working paper Posted: 2010
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 45 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
P Arnold
Global financial crisis: the challenge to accounting research, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 6 , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Badertscher , J Burks , P Easton
A convenient scapegoat: fair value accounting by commercial banks during the financial crisis Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Michel Magnan
Directors' Compensation and Governance: Issues and Challenges
34 Pages · Posted: 27 Jun 2014 · Last revised: 1 Jul 2014 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrei Filip , Ahmad Hammami , Zhongwei Huang , Anne Jeny , Michel Magnan , Rucsandra Moldovan
Convergence in Motion: A Review of Fair Value Levels' Relevance
37 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2020 · Last revised: 30 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Albert Acheampong , Tamer Elshandidy
Does soft information determine credit risk? Text-based evidence from European banks
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, Vol. 75, 2021 · 68 Pages · Posted: 4 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jennifer Lynne M. Altamuro , Lucy Huajing Chen
Level 3 fair value transfers: The impact of oversight and incentives on the reclassification decision
52 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2022 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
409
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,008
RANK
164,343
4 Citations
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies