Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New York’s Law of Tax Malpractice Damages: Balanced or Biased?

St. John's Law Review, Vol. 86, No. 1, 2012

St. John's Legal Studies Research Paper No. 11-009

45 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2011

Jacob L. Todres

St. John's University - School of Law

Date Written: July 6, 2011

Abstract

In this article Professor Todres focuses on two common elements of damages often incurred by plaintiffs who are the victims of negligently rendered incorrect tax advice – additional, avoidable taxes, and interest on underpaid taxes. Both of these types of damages appear not to be recoverable under current New York law that traces its roots to Alpert v. Shea Gould Climenko and Casey, 160 A.D.2d 67, 559 N.Y.S.2d 312 (1st Dept. 1990).

As to the non-recovery of additional taxes that could have been avoided with correct advice, Professor Todres argues that current New York law is incorrect. It is based upon Alpert, supra, which held such amounts are not recoverable as damages in a fraud case. While Alpert is correct under New York’s fraud measure of damages, it simply has no bearing on amounts recoverable under New York’s traditional measure of damages for negligence in attorney malpractice cases, which is broader than the fraud measure of damages. Professor Todres argues that later negligence cases that simply followed Alpert ignored the fact that they were unwittingly transporting the fraud measure of damages into the negligence arena.

With respect to the non-recoverability of interest incurred on a tax underpayment, Professor Todres argues that while this approach made sense when initially promulgated by Alpert, a newer approach that developed recently in other states is much more discerning and just and should be adopted by New York. Under Alpert interest was not recoverable because the plaintiff had use of the underpaid tax money for the period of time interest was accruing to the government. Alpert held it would be an unwarranted benefit for the plaintiff to have both use of the money and to recover the interest charge for the use of this money. An assumption underlying Alpert’s reasoning is that the plaintiff is always able to earn a rate of return on the money equal to the underpayment rate charged by the government. Under the modern approach, a plaintiff would be able to recover any difference between the amount actually earned with the money and a higher interest rate imposed by the government.

Both of these positions of New York law benefit defendant professionals at the expense of injured plaintiffs. This is consistent with several other aspects of New York law. Professor Todres wonders, in conclusion, whether New York is yet again being overly protective of its errant professionals rather than having a more even-handed policy.

Suggested Citation:

Todres, Jacob L., New York’s Law of Tax Malpractice Damages: Balanced or Biased? (July 6, 2011). St. John's Law Review, Vol. 86, No. 1, 2012, St. John's Legal Studies Research Paper No. 11-009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1880104
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
King V Neal
Okla. Civ. App , volume 899 , p. 900 - 901 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Pytka V. Gadsby , L L P Hannah
No. 01-1546 BLS
Mass. Super. LEXIS , volume 461 , issue 8 Posted: 2002
Here the individual defendant was not actually an attorney though he was held out to be an attorney and of counsel at the defendant law firm. The court treated him as if he were an attorney
Jamison , Money , V Farmer &amp; Co , Standeffer
For other examples, see Malpractice Damages , p. 713 - 727 Posted: 1061
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,636
RANK
354,141
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

St. John's University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies