Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Benefits for Individuals and Extent of Their Use in Estonia During 2007-2009

Discussions on Estonian Economic Policy, January 2011

16 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2011 Last revised: 4 Feb 2012

Velda Buldas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Priit Sander

University of Tartu - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Mark Kantšukov

University of Tartu - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

In this paper an overview of tax benefits granted by Estonian legal acts is given, and extent of tax benefits use by resident natural persons using the data from databases of Estonian Tax and Customs Board (ETCB) is analyzed. Also the possibility of tax benefits classification is considered and to whom and on which purposes stated tax benefits are addressed is analyzed. Research based on three years data shows that in Estonia tax benefits for individuals are widely used. On average uncollected amounts of tax due to tax benefits approximately equal 9% of the state budget revenues. Large amount of tax benefits is not a negative indicator per se but they aid distributed incomes to reach people who really need those benefits. In opposite case tax benefits are not reasoned but they rather create additional administrative workload. Talking about Estonian tax system roughly half of tax benefits is addresses to people who belong to low income stratum, at the same time remarkable proportion of benefits may be directed to middle-class and wealthy people.

Keywords: tax benefits, tax exemptions, tax system, Estonia

JEL Classification: D14, H2

Suggested Citation:

Buldas, Velda and Sander, Priit and Kantšukov, Mark, Tax Benefits for Individuals and Extent of Their Use in Estonia During 2007-2009 (June 1, 2011). Discussions on Estonian Economic Policy, January 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1880008 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1880008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
RT I , volume 88 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Cnossen
Tax Policy in the European Union: a Review of Issues and Options Posted: 2002
Income Tax Act. Passed 15.12.1999, RT I , volume 101 Posted: 1999
KPMG's Corporate and Indirect Tax Rate Survey Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
799,009
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

From Deontology to Practical Application: The Vision of a Good Society and the Tax System

By Sagit Leviner

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies