Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gladwellian Taxation: Deterring Tax Abuse Through General Anti-Avoidance Rules

Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2011

35 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2011 Last revised: 5 Aug 2011

Genevieve Loutinsky

Government of the United States of America - U.S. Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

To reduce tax evasion, most nations use either common law anti-abuse doctrines, statutes, administrative rules, or a combination of the three. None of them have worked fully, and, given human nature, it is unlikely that anything will ever work fully.

However, as this Article will outline, some solutions are more effective than others. This Article will propose a blended solution, using the concept of power-law distributions and their extension into social science. The first Section of this Article defines tax abuse and avoidance, distinguishing the two terms. The next Section details general anti-avoidance rules (GAARs), highlighting their flaws and strengths. It explains the history of one of the world's oldest GAARs, the Canadian GAAR. Finally, this Article will propose a new system, arguing that any true attack on tax avoidance or abuse must be aimed at the tax avoidance mentality, not the tax shelter de jour. I refer to this new system as the "GAAR-plus." It is a system of targeted cooperative enforcement, where taxpayers designated as "chronic tax avoiders," will work with IRS agents both prior to and after transactions, in an effort to alter the chronic tax avoidance mentality. The GAAR-plus system is based on prior Treasury success with cooperative enforcement, but draws heavily upon Malcolm Gladwell's writings on power law distributions for inspiration.

Tax shelters run in fads; an outlawed fad may vanish but the desire to reduce one’s tax bill has not been managed in the slightest.

Keywords: GAAR, general anti-avoidance rules, general anti-abuse rules, tax avoidance, evasion, tax evasion, Malcolm Gladwell, power law distribution, GAAR, PAAR, 1.701-2, 7701(o)

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Loutinsky, Genevieve, Gladwellian Taxation: Deterring Tax Abuse Through General Anti-Avoidance Rules (2011). Houston Business and Tax Law Journal, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1891005
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
In recent years, however, many practitioners have come to view these judicially created anti-abuse doctrines as so vague that they can effectively be ignored , volume 43 , p. 48 - 49 Posted: 2009
Lavoie
Flying Above the Law, supra note 188
Raskolnikov
Crime and Punishment, supra note 5 at 578
Raskolnikov
Crime and Punishment, supra note 5
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,427
RANK
322,924
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies