Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity Swaps and the Withholding Tax: 'Potential for Tax Avoidance'

Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 25, No. 3, pp. 53-59, January/February 2012

Posted: 29 Jan 2012 Last revised: 31 Jan 2012

Luis Rodriguez

Alfred University - Associate Professor of Law & Taxation

Date Written: September 15, 2011

Abstract

New Section 871(m)(3)(B) provides that effective March 2012 all equity swap contract payments that reference U.S. source dividends will be subject to withholding tax, unless the U.S. tax authorities determine that the equity swap contract is of a type that does not have the “potential for tax avoidance.” Unfortunately, the tax authorities have no direct guidance for interpreting the statute. This article introduces indirect guidance that suggests guiding principles, and furthermore proposes that, under the circumstances, an interpretation grounded in those principles, and extended as new investigations warrant, is the most supportable.

Keywords: Withholding, total return equity swap, swap, dividends, derivatives, 871(m), potential for tax avoidance

Suggested Citation:

Rodriguez, Luis, Equity Swaps and the Withholding Tax: 'Potential for Tax Avoidance' (September 15, 2011). Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 25, No. 3, pp. 53-59, January/February 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1895065
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,568
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies