Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
2010 Federal Income Tax Laws that Cause Individuals' Marginal and Statutory Tax Rates to Differ

2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions

38 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011

Gregory G. Geisler

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Date Written: January 5, 2011

Abstract

This article summarizes phase-outs of and limitations on deductions, credits, exclusions from income, and allowed contributions in 2010 that can cause an individual’s effective marginal tax rate (MTR) to be higher than the individual’s statutory tax rate (STR) (i.e., the individual’s tax rate “bracket” based on taxable income).

(This article was completed January 5, 2011 and contains current tax law current as of this date.)

Suggested Citation:

Geisler, Gregory Gerard, 2010 Federal Income Tax Laws that Cause Individuals' Marginal and Statutory Tax Rates to Differ (January 5, 2011). 2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1904929 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1904929
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
R Altshuler , J Goldin
The Opacity of Marginal Tax Rates.‖ Tax Notes Posted: 2009-10
Crossref
National Taxpayer Advocate (NTA), Department of the Treasury: Internal Revenue Service
Present Law and Analysis Relating to Individual Effective Marginal Tax Rates.‖ JCS-3-98 Posted: 1931
Dc: U Washington
Government Printing Office
Department of the Treasury: Internal Revenue Service , p. 12 - 2008 Posted: 1931
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,699
RANK
623,124
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies