Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting in Romania and in the Czech Republic: A Comparative Study

Ekonomicke Listy - Czech Economic Letters, No. 5, pp. 45-61, 2011

Posted: 3 Aug 2011

Irena Jindrichovska

Anglo-American University Prague

Irina Purcarea

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 4, 2011

Abstract

This paper concentrates on development of sustainability reporting with special accent on environmental and social issues in countries which recently joined the EU: Romania and the Czech Republic. The article analyses the short tradition of CSR reporting in both countries and current state of development. The article also deals with plans to introduce rules of sustainability reporting into compulsory financial reporting statements in Czech Republic and compares it with country specific approach in Romania.

We use comparative case study approach in the two countries in energy sectors and heavy machinery works. We have found that the standard of sustainability reporting is based on the same principles in both countries originating from common roots but the particular approaches differ. In our opinion, more systematic regulatory approach may be adopted in Romania, whilst non-prescriptive approach to environmental reporting should be adopted in the Czech Republic similarly as in other developed countries.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, environmental accounting, sustainable development, Czech Republic, Romania

JEL Classification: M14, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jindrichovska, Irena and Purcarea, Irina, Sustainability Reporting in Romania and in the Czech Republic: A Comparative Study (July 4, 2011). Ekonomicke Listy - Czech Economic Letters, No. 5, pp. 45-61, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1904298
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,535
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies