Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supreme Court Holds Medical Residents are Not Students for Purposes of FICA

2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions

24 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Laura Lee Mannino

St. John's University

Abstract

“How do you draw the line between a student who is working and a worker who is studying?” This question, asked by Justice Sotomayor during oral arguments for Mayo Foundation v. U.S., highlighted the issue as to whether medical residents should be considered students for FICA purposes. Specifically at issue was whether residents that worked and received training at the Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research were exempt from FICA under the “student exemption” in section 3121(b)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code. Following several adverse decisions, the Treasury Department recently amended a long-standing regulation by adding a “full-time employee” limitation, which effectively removes residents from the exemption. The district court invalidated the amended regulation, however the Eighth Circuit reversed. In January 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court resolved the issue in favor of the government based on its finding that the regulation is a permissible construction of the statute.

Suggested Citation:

Mannino, Laura Lee, Supreme Court Holds Medical Residents are Not Students for Purposes of FICA. 2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1905204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
In the typical case, such ambiguity would lead us inexorably to step two" may be read to mean that it didn't think an analysis of the proper framework was necessary
Chevron Chevron National Muffler
The question whether they are 'students' for purposes of [section] 3121, however, is a different matter," and one which we now have an answer to
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
759,919
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies