Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Split Widens as the D.C. Court of Appeals Rules that Tax Accrual Workpapers Are Protected by the Work Product Doctrine

2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions

60 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Mark Aquilio

St. John's University

Abstract

In U.S. v. Deloitte LLP, the D.C. Circuit, applying the “because of” test, ruled that the IRS may not be entitled to a memorandum prepared by Deloitte LLP recording the thoughts provided orally of a client’s attorneys regarding contingent tax liabilities for financial reporting purposes, as the work product doctrine applies to documents “prepared in anticipation of litigation” with a dual non-litigation purpose. It also held that disclosure to Deloitte LLP of other documents did not waive work product protection. Conversely, the Fifth Circuit in U.S. v. El Paso Co. used the “primary purpose” test and denied work product protection to tax accrual workpapers. The First Circuit in U.S. v. Textron, Inc., using the “because of” test, denied work product protection to tax accrual workpapers, opining that they were not “prepared for use in litigation.” Proposed regulations require certain corporations to file a Schedule UTP, Uncertain Tax Position Statement.

Suggested Citation:

Aquilio, Mark, The Split Widens as the D.C. Court of Appeals Rules that Tax Accrual Workpapers Are Protected by the Work Product Doctrine. 2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905191 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1905191
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Announcement 2010-75
Crossref
Announcement 2010-76
Binks Mfg , Co
National Presto Indus., Inc., 709 F.2d 1109 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Financial Accounting Standards Board, Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes Posted: 2006-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,375
RANK
481,321
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies