Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judicial Deference to Regulations In Conflict with Court Decisions and the Administrative Procedures Act Intermountain Insurance Service of Vail, LLC v. Commissioner

2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions

23 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 26 Aug 2011

Donald T. Williamson

American University - Kogod School of Business

Blair Staley

Bloomsburg University of Pennsylvania - College of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

The Tax Court's recent decision in Intermountain Insurance Service of Vail, LLC v. Commissioner addresses the validity of temporary regulations under I.R.C. §§6229 and 6501 extending the statute of limitations on assessment to six years when the taxpayer overstates basis resulting in an understatement of gross income by more than 25 percent. The case raises significant issues regarding whether temporary regulations can overturn long standing judicial precedent and whether such regulations meet the public notice and comment requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act generally governing the promulgation of all federal agency rules. Resolution of these issues by appellate courts, and ultimately the Supreme Court, will have enormous impact on the ability of the IRS to issue timely, binding guidance to taxpayers.

Suggested Citation:

Williamson, Donald T. and Staley, Blair, Judicial Deference to Regulations In Conflict with Court Decisions and the Administrative Procedures Act Intermountain Insurance Service of Vail, LLC v. Commissioner. 2011 American Accounting Association Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905187 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1905187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
RANK
379,264
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies