Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Two Concepts of Comprehensive Income

Accounting and Audit Journal (JICPA), Vol. 19, No. 11, pp. 30-39, November 2007

19 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2011 Last revised: 18 Aug 2011

Eiko Tsujiyama

Waseda University - Graduate School of Commerce

Date Written: November 30, 2007

Abstract

The recent international trends in the reporting of comprehensive income can be summed up as follows: the new reporting format for comprehensive income that the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) have set their scope for a future introduction that will lead to a fundamentally different way of reporting comprehensive income from the current IFRS (IAS 1 as revised in 2007), current US GAAP (FAS 130) and current Japanese GAAP, which more or less advocate the same method of business performance reporting. Whereas both net income and comprehensive income are reported under the current business performance reporting format, the proposed new IASB/FASB format will banish net income from performance reporting. This paper examines the appropriateness of such a move in light of the role expected of 'income'.

Keywords: comprehensive income, net income, revenue and expense view, assets and liabilities view, income concept, cash flow allocation

Suggested Citation:

Tsujiyama, Eiko, Two Concepts of Comprehensive Income (November 30, 2007). Accounting and Audit Journal (JICPA), Vol. 19, No. 11, pp. 30-39, November 2007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1905390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
W H Beaver
Financial Reporting: An Accounting Revolution Posted: 1981
G J Benston
AAA's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (FASC): The FASB's Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting: A Critical Analysis
Accounting Horizons , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 238 Posted: 2007
H G Bullen , K Crook
Revisiting the Concept: A New Conceptual Framework Project Posted: 2005
Fasb
Discussion Memorandum, Conceptual Framework for Financial Accounting Reporting Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,345
RANK
275,235
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies