Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Income Tax - Gifts and Inheritances

FEDERAL INCOME TAX, 6th Edition, Chapter 6, p. 131, Foundation Press, 2011

U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 246

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 545

29 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2011 Last revised: 15 Sep 2011

Douglas A. Kahn

University of Michigan Law School

Jeffrey H. Kahn

Harry M. Walborsky Professor, Florida State University College of Law; Associate Dean, Business Program

Date Written: August 11, 2011

Abstract

The contributed material consists of a chapter on gifts and inheritances from the sixth edition of Federal Income Tax (2011). The chapter discusses the oft-quoted Duberstein standard for determining what is a gift and questions the actual usefulness of that standard. The tax treatment of gifts is examined, and the authors suggest a rationale for the exclusion of gifts from the donee’s income. Exceptions to income exclusion are noted. In connection with considering the exclusion of inheritances from income, attention is given to the treatment of the settlement of an estate controversy. The special treatment of a gift or devise to an employee is examined. The manner for determining the basis of gifted and inherited property is explained, and attention is given to the effect that the payment of a gift tax has on a donee’s basis. Illustrations are provided to help the reader see how the tax rules operate.

Keywords: Gift, Inheritance, Duberstein, Donor, Donee, Devise, Gift Tax

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Douglas A. and Kahn, Jeffrey H., Federal Income Tax - Gifts and Inheritances (August 11, 2011). FEDERAL INCOME TAX, 6th Edition, Chapter 6, p. 131, Foundation Press, 2011, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 246, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 545, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1908383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Barbara Stark
At Last? Ratification of the Economic Covenant as a Congressional-Executive Agreement
Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Vol. 20, p. 107, Spring 2011 · 36 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2012 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,215
RANK
264,566
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies