Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of U.S. and Offshore-Indian Tax Professionals’ Client Advocacy Attitudes and Client Recommendations

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Aug 2011 Last revised: 3 May 2016

Brian C. Spilker

Brigham Young University

Bryan W. Stewart

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Jaron H. Wilde

University of Iowa - Henry B. Tippie College of Business

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 28, 2016

Abstract

This study compares the client advocacy attitudes of U.S. tax professionals who do U.S. tax work in the U.S. and Indian tax professionals who do U.S. tax work offshore. We find that experienced U.S. tax professionals have stronger client advocacy attitudes than experienced Indian tax professionals, while the client advocacy attitudes of inexperienced U.S. and inexperienced Indian tax professionals are not significantly different. Further, client advocacy attitudes of experienced U.S. tax professionals are stronger than advocacy attitudes of inexperienced U.S. tax professionals while the client advocacy attitudes of experienced Indian tax professionals are not different from advocacy attitudes of inexperienced Indian tax professionals. We also provide evidence that the client advocacy attitudes of experienced U.S. tax professionals are positively associated with their recommendations of the client-preferred position, while the client advocacy attitudes of experienced Indian tax professionals are not related to their client recommendations. Given the increasing number of Indian tax professionals performing U.S. tax work, our findings should be of interest to researchers, taxing authorities, firms, and taxpayers.

Keywords: Client advocacy, India, Offshoring, Tax

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M55, H2, H20, C9, C90, C93

Suggested Citation:

Spilker, Brian and Stewart, Bryan W. and Wilde, Jaron H. and Wood, David A., A Comparison of U.S. and Offshore-Indian Tax Professionals’ Client Advocacy Attitudes and Client Recommendations (April 28, 2016). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1908959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1908959
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies