Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alliance Healthcare Network: Using a Balanced Scorecard to Motivate Change

AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

Posted: 15 Aug 2011

Anne M. A. Sergeant

Grand Valley State University - Department of Accounting & Taxation

Paulette A. Ratliff-Miller

Grand Valley State University

Date Written: August 15, 2011

Abstract

This case considers the use of a balanced scorecard in motivating change to an organizational culture in a hospital information technology (IT) setting. The company presented owns a number of hospitals and uses a consolidated IT system with a comprehensive electronic health record. As new hospitals are acquired, the organizational culture must be assimilated with that of the parent company. Students are encouraged to discuss the difficulties of change in an organization and to think about how performance measures can be used to assist in change. Objectives of the case are 1) to integrate performance measures and strategy into a motivational framework, 2) to provide a situation for understanding cost-benefit tradeoffs of a consolidated IT, 3) to foster an understanding of incentives and motivation for different types of individuals, and 4) to expose students to some current issues in healthcare management.

Keywords: balanced scorecard, performance measures, cost-benefit analysis, strategic alignment, healthcare management

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sergeant, Anne M. A. and Ratliff-Miller, Paulette A., Alliance Healthcare Network: Using a Balanced Scorecard to Motivate Change (August 15, 2011). AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1910148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1910148
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,131
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Management Educator: Courses, Cases & Teaching eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies