Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Requirements for Performance Management Systems: A Delineation of the Comprehensive Set of Criteria

European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 6-22, 2008

17 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2011

Bartlomiej Nita

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: February 10, 2008

Abstract

The paper deals with the problem of identification of the requirements that should be fulfilled by modern corporate performance management systems. In the first part of the article the essence of corporate performance management was depicted very briefly taking into account the evolution of management accounting. Next, the overview of different ideas on the subject was presented and some opinions taken from literature were discussed. On this basis the original and comprehensive set of criteria treated as the requirements for performance management systems was proposed.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Performance Management and Measurement

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Nita, Bartlomiej, Requirements for Performance Management Systems: A Delineation of the Comprehensive Set of Criteria (February 10, 2008). European Financial and Accounting Journal, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp. 6-22, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1910694
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
R N Anthony
Planning and Control Systems: A Framework for Analysis Posted: 1965
R N Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems Posted: 2004
M E Beischel , K R Smith
Linking the Shop Floor to the Top Floor
Management Accounting , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 25 - 36 Posted: 1991
U Bititci , A Carrie , T Turner
Integrated Performance Measurement Systems: Structure and Dynamics
Business Performance Measurement. Theory and Practice. Cambridge Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
459,276
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies