Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Partnerships Work for Mom and Pop and Everyone Else

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2011

MSU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 09-17

56 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2011

Emily Cauble

University of Wisconsin Law School

Date Written: August 17, 2011

Abstract

Entities treated as partnerships for tax purposes cover the spectrum from small Mom and Pop operations to mammoth enterprises owned by sophisticated partners. Designing tax law to govern this diverse array of entities is a challenging exercise since rules that are well suited to provide simplicity for entities at the small, unsophisticated end of the continuum may be poorly designed for preventing manipulation by entities at the large, sophisticated end of the continuum. However, a careful examination of how tax rules can best promote simplicity reveals opportunities for reform that would make the law more appropriate for entities all along the continuum.

Keywords: Partnership Tax, Complexity, Section 704(c), Section 754

Suggested Citation:

Cauble, Emily, Making Partnerships Work for Mom and Pop and Everyone Else (August 17, 2011). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 2, No. 2, 2011, MSU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 09-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Emily Cauble
Rethinking the Timing of Tax Decisions: Does a Taxpayer Ever Deserve a Second Chance?
61 Cath. U. L. Rev. 1013 (2012), MSU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 10-09 · 61 Pages · Posted: 2 May 2012 · Last revised: 27 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 164
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,162
RANK
405,369
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies