Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring the Convergence Degree between Accounting and Valuation Standards: Case Study on Intangible Assets

International Journal of Business Research, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2010

10 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2011

Adela Deaconu

Babes-Bolyal University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Nistor Cristina Silvia

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Filip Crina

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Dan Cuzdriorean

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: August 17, 2011

Abstract

This research measures the convergence between fair value accounting and valuation regulations in the case of intangible assets. In this respect, it analyzes through an empirical approach the accounting and valuation rules and the determinant factors of the similarities or dissimilarities between them. It brings forward three areas of analysis with normative and practical significance. The findings indicate a moderate convergence degree between the accounting and valuation regulations. The major causes for this dissimilarity appear to be the conceptual outlook and disclosure requirements, while for valuation treatment there seems to be a very high degree of similarity. The recommendations of this study to the two standard setters may trigger a growth of the users’ confidence in the valuations based on IVS, more clearly determined and more consistently described and disclosed, as well as to the improvement of the usefulness of financial reporting by reducing information asymmetry.

Keywords: valuation for financial reporting, IVS, IFRS, correlation degree, intangible assets

Suggested Citation:

Deaconu, Adela and Cristina Silvia, Nistor and Crina, Filip and Cuzdriorean, Dan, Measuring the Convergence Degree between Accounting and Valuation Standards: Case Study on Intangible Assets (August 17, 2011). International Journal of Business Research, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A Deaconu
Valoarea justă -concept contabil
Economică, Bucureşti. Financial Reporting Council (FRC) (2010) Posted: 2009-01
J Frooman
Exposure Draft: Proposed New International Valuation Guidance Note 16 Valuation of Intangible Assets for IFRS Reporting Purposes
Exposure Draft: Proposed New International Valuation Guidance Note 4 Intangible Assets , volume 24 Posted: 1999
K Jacobs , K Jones
Legitimacy and parliamentary oversight in Australia
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 34
Crossref
S Y Kenny , R K Larson
Lobbying behavior and the development of international accounting standards
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 531 - 54 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
319
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,289
RANK
216,737
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies