Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and the Environmental Factors - An Empirical Investigation in Post-Communist Romania

Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2011

27 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2011 Last revised: 2 Jan 2012

Adela Deaconu

Babes-Bolyal University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Anuta Buiga

Babes-Bolyai University

Date Written: August 17, 2011

Abstract

This research covers the Romanian financial reporting in the Post-Communist period. Firstly, through a qualitative analysis, it demonstrates the existence of three different accounting stages for the period 1997-2009. The research is based on the criterion of differentiation for accounting systems into Continental-European type and Anglo-Saxon type respectively, and tests the relevance of the criterion in the historic context. Secondly, a framework comprising economic, legal and cultural factors is developed. Using this framework the accounting environment of each historical stage is defined. The political influential factors of accounting are identified as the choices regarding accounting rules. Thirdly, through an empirical approach based mainly on the binary regression technique, the study interprets the compliance degree between accounting rules (political factors) and the accounting environment (economic, legal and cultural factors). The research propositions are confirmed, namely: for the stage (1997-2000) the accounting environment was of Continental-European type; for the stage 2001-2005, the accounting environment was of Anglo-Saxon type; for the stage 2006-2009, the accounting environment had both Continental-European and Anglo-Saxon type characteristics, the latter being predominant. These primary findings are endorsed by other conclusions regarding the influence in time of environmental factors in the Romanian context. The results confirm the thesis of political influence on accounting, arguing that for Romania there has not been a strong correlation between the choice for accounting rules and the economy’s level of development. The frequent and rough change of accounting rules has shaken the accounting reform process. The mixed thesis and Continental-European influence, expressed in different and little coordinated public measures, has affected the utility and relevance of financial reporting and thus, the quality of financial information. Furthermore, the findings corroborate the difficult adjustment to the new accounting rules (mainly to IFRS) of emergent countries. The influence of factors and drivers in different accounting environments is empirically measured. The fiscal features (creative accounting practices and fiscal incentives) had the highest explanatory power regarding accounting environments, especially in the first two stages (1997-2005). The financing systems drivers (capital structure, financial market development incentives) proved to have a certain influence, which denotes a development in stages of the capital market and the diversification of the financing resources to the end of the analysis period (2006-2009). After 2005, the accounting environment takes on certain characteristics of the Anglo-Saxon accounting system, leading to a stronger similarity to the accounting rules adopted, following the global trend of IFRS alignment. Finally, this research argues that the current Romanian accounting model (2006-2009) encompasses mixed influences. A pure accounting model, identifiable by reference to the classic accounting systems presented in the literature, can no longer be identified. This may suggest that accounting systems classification schemes have become obsolete in the context of international accounting harmonization.

Keywords: Romanian accounting history, emergent economy, accounting rules, environmental factors

Suggested Citation:

Deaconu, Adela and Buiga, Anuta, Accounting and the Environmental Factors - An Empirical Investigation in Post-Communist Romania (August 17, 2011). Accounting and Management Information Systems, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911134
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firme performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Aisbitt
Tax and accounting rules: some recent developments
European Business Review , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 92 - 97 Posted: 2002
Crossref
European Accounting Guide Posted: 2001
D Alexander , S Archer
Anglo-Saxon" financial accounting
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 557 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,879
RANK
293,720
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies