Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparison of Internal Control Systems in Japan and China

International Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 3, No. 1, January 2012

9 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2012

Sato Takahiro

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Pan Jia

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 5, 2012

Abstract

In Japan, 'Corporate Law' and 'Financial Instruments and Exchange Law' stipulate the internal control system. Stipulations in 'Corporate Law' tend towards all levels the in the company, while stipulations in 'Financial Instruments and Exchange Law' are more inclined towards the accuracy of financial reporting. Although the internal control systems stipulated by these two laws have many of differences, their essence is the same: perfecting a comprehensive internal control system. In order to safeguard the normal operation of internal control system, provisions in the law require that directors act in due diligence toward establishing an internal control system.

Keywords: internal control, Sino-Japan comparison, the duty of the diligence

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Takahiro, Sato and Jia, Pan, Comparison of Internal Control Systems in Japan and China (January 5, 2012). International Journal of Business Administration, Vol. 3, No. 1, January 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1911901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
T Aizawa
New Corporate Law. Tokyo: Commercial Law , volume 334 Posted: 2006
Responsibility and Status Quo of Internal Control
Japan Association of Corporate Directors , p. 61 - 160 Posted: 2008
H Kanda
Corporate law. Tokyo: Koubunsha Posted: 2007
H Kobayashi
Internal Control and Director's Responsibilities , p. 18 - 189 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
516
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,291
RANK
124,818
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies