Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Should the Courts Allow Reassessments Beyond the Limitation Period?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 475-527, 2010

Posted: 23 Aug 2011

Robert Kopstein

Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP

Rebecca Levi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The Income Tax Act generally prohibits the minister from reassessing a taxpayer after the expiry of three or four years from the date of the original assessment; however, subparagraph 152(4)(a)(i) allows the minister to reassess a taxpayer at any time where the taxpayer or person filing the return has made a misrepresentation attributable to neglect, carelessness, or wilful default in filing the return or supplying information under the Act.

The authors of this article are of the view that the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has been asserting with more regularity that subparagraph 152(4)(a)(i) could apply to statute-barred years where the alleged misrepresentation arises as a result of the taxpayer adopting a legal interpretation, based on tax advice, that, although evident in the return, is contrary to the CRA’s preferred interpretation of the issue. This article considers the scope of the reassessment provision where the basis alleged as grounds for its application is essentially a difference of opinion between the CRA and the taxpayer regarding the taxpayer’s chosen filing position.

The authors make the case that subparagraph 152(4)(a)(i) should not apply where a taxpayer has received carefully considered advice from a competent tax adviser, has adopted an interpretation that has a realistic possibility of being upheld by a reviewing court, and has fully disclosed its filing position in its tax return. The authors show that this assertion derives support from the jurisprudence, as well as the purpose of the provision itself; that it is further bolstered by the standards invoked to support the application of the tax preparer penalties; and that it is the fair approach to take in light of the current judicial framework for statutory interpretation. They also discuss why subparagraph 152(4)(a)(i) cannot be used to support an assessment under the general anti-avoidance rule.

The article concludes with suggestions for legislative and administrative reform that would provide taxpayers with more certainty in the conduct of their financial affairs and help to ensure that the reassessment power in subparagraph 152(4)(a)(i) is limited to those circumstances where it should properly apply.

Keywords: reassessment, limitations, tax return, advisers, penalties, GAAR

Suggested Citation:

Kopstein, Robert and Levi, Rebecca, When Should the Courts Allow Reassessments Beyond the Limitation Period?. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 475-527, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1912580
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,130
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies