Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Curtailing Income Tax Relief for Cosmetic Medical Expenses

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 529-575, 2010

Posted: 23 Aug 2011

Ling Chu

Wilfrid Laurier University

Alan Macnaughton

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Nicole Verlinden

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This article is a comprehensive legal and policy review of an amendment introduced in the 2010 Canadian federal budget to exclude cosmetic medical expenses from the medical expense tax credit. The analysis is guided by knowledge relevant to these expenses from the fields of medicine and the social sciences.

The budget amendment is shown to be well justified in tax policy terms, despite the increased complexity it brings. A review of experience with similar rules in the United States, Australia, and Quebec suggests that few disputes with taxpayers should be expected if the enforcement level is similar to that in those jurisdictions.

The wording of the legislation (new subsection 118.2(2.1)) provides taxpayers with two separate avenues for avoiding the exclusion of cosmetic medical expenses: (1) the service for which the expense is paid is “necessary for medical or reconstructive purposes,” or (2) it is not “purely for cosmetic purposes.” Both of these exceptions may be subject to expansive interpretation by taxpayers.

The medical necessity exception is likely to be used extensively by taxpayers who obtain cosmetic medical treatment in order to alleviate appearance-related psychological distress. In light of the limited scientific evidence that cosmetic procedures are therapeutic for this problem, it might be desirable to legislate that this exception will be limited to distress related to gender identity disorder.

The second exception could potentially apply to almost any expenditure for cosmetic dentistry (which currently represents about one-fifth of all cosmetic medical expenses). Other jurisdictions have had a similar problem in this area. Filling this gap in the rules is difficult and would likely require removing the requirement that expenses be “purely” cosmetic to be caught. Detailed guidance from the Canada Revenue Agency would also be required.

Keywords: tax credit, medical, expenses, amendments

Suggested Citation:

Chu, Ling and Macnaughton, Alan and Verlinden, Nicole, Curtailing Income Tax Relief for Cosmetic Medical Expenses. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 3, pp. 529-575, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1912601
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,105
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies