Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Retroactive Lump-Sum Payments: The Practice and the Policy

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 1, pp. 1-23, 2010

Posted: 23 Aug 2011

Joseph Frankovic

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Abstract

This article discusses the taxation of retroactive lump-sum payments, which are essentially payments received in one taxation year that relate to one or more previous taxation years. Provisions of the Income Tax Act that deal specifically with retroactive lump-sum payments are intended to tax the payments as if they had been received in the previous year(s) to which they relate, rather than in the year of receipt. Accordingly, one would expect the provisions to result in an after-tax income position for the recipient in the year of receipt equivalent to that which would have resulted had the payment actually been subject to tax in the previous year. Furthermore, since the provisions effectively tax the payment at the previous year’s rate of tax, one would expect that they would always be relieving in nature to the extent that the recipient’s rate of tax in the previous year was less than his rate of tax in the year of receipt.

Through a series of propositions illustrating the appropriate taxation of retroactive lump-sum payments, this article shows that the statutory provisions do not fulfill these expectations or the appropriate tax policy objectives. In particular, the analysis leads to the conclusion that the effective result of the provisions is to subject the interest element of retroactive lump-sum payments to double taxation.

Keywords: deferred income, interest, payments, retroactive, tax policy, timing

Suggested Citation:

Frankovic, Joseph, The Taxation of Retroactive Lump-Sum Payments: The Practice and the Policy. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 58, No. 1, pp. 1-23, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1912739
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,205
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies