Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Reform: Reduce the Corporate Income Tax Rate and More

Tax Notes, p. 923, August 2011

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-13

6 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2011

Eric M. Zolt

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: August 30, 2011

Abstract

The U.S. corporate income tax rate is too high. In an increasing global economy, we are the odd man out. Any corporate rate reduction, however, will have ripple effects throughout the tax system, some intended and some not. This article highlights the possibility of using the potential reduction in corporate income tax rates as a catalyst for fundamental changes in the tax regime for business income and the relative contributions of tax revenue from different types of taxes.

Keywords: tax reform, corporate income tax rates, business tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Zolt, Eric M., Tax Reform: Reduce the Corporate Income Tax Rate and More (August 30, 2011). Tax Notes, p. 923, August 2011, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 11-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1919683
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,546
RANK
333,158
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies