Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
D.C Circuit: 'The IRS is Not Special'

Tax Analysis, 2011

10 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2011 Last revised: 22 Jan 2012

Patrick J. Smith

Ivins, Phillips & Barker

Date Written: August 29, 2011

Abstract

The D.C. Circuit’s recent en banc decision in Cohen allowed a challenge to a tax refund procedure established in an IRS notice to proceed as a free-standing suit under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), outside the traditional framework for challenging IRS actions through tax refund suits or Tax Court petitions. Because that result depended on the highly unusual circumstances presented in the case, it is unlikely that taxpayers will often be able to take advantage of the holding.

More broadly significant, however, is the fact that, in its analysis, the D.C. Circuit confirmed that the IRS is subject to the requirements of the APA. That confirmation is a welcome application in the APA context of the Supreme Court’s more general holding in Mayo that the IRS is subject to the same general requirements of administrative law that apply to all other federal agencies.

Keywords: Mayo, Cohen, Administrative Procedure Act, IRS

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Patrick J., D.C Circuit: 'The IRS is Not Special' (August 29, 2011). Tax Analysis, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1920212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Id
, p. 10 - 11
Crossref
The dissent concocts an extravagant scenario in an effort to show that a refund suit would be an adequate alternative remedy
Dissenting op , volume 11
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
511,635
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies