Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Same-Sex Relationships, DOMA, and the Tax Code: Rethinking the Relevance of DOMA to Straight Couples

Columbia Journal of Gender and Law, Vol. 20.1, p. 383, 2011

Roger Williams Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 109

43 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2011 Last revised: 25 Sep 2015

Keeva Terry

Howard University School of Law

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

According to Professor Derrick Bell’s seminal article describing his Interest Convergence Theory, the interests of Blacks are only accommodated when they coincide with the interests of Whites. By analogy, the interests of same-sex couples are only accommodated when they coincide with the interests of heterosexual couples. The elimination of discriminatory provisions that cause heterosexual married couples to pay more federal income tax than their same-sex counterparts might just be the mutually beneficial interest necessary to prompt Congress to recognize same-sex legal unions. In the absence of DOMA, married couples would be taxed equally for federal income tax purposes, but DOMA compels disparate federal income tax liabilities between same-sex married couples and heterosexual married couples, often to the detriment of heterosexual married couples. Congress should act to equalize these tax liabilities.

This Article endorses recent decisions made by the IRS regarding the federal income taxation of domestic partners and same-sex married couples. First, this Article confirms that the federal income tax inequality between domestic partners and heterosexual married couples is compelled under current federal income tax laws and DOMA does not preclude this federal income tax disparity. Second, this Article shows that same-sex married couples should calculate income for federal income tax purposes in the same manner as heterosexual married couples. Even those who find the federal income tax inequality between domestic partners and heterosexual married couples tolerable because domestic partnership is not identical to marriage must agree that there is something different about marriage. Once married, all married couples should be taxed equally. This Article ultimately concludes that the repeal of DOMA’s Marriage Definition is the first step necessary to restore equity, not only on behalf of same-sex couples, but also for the benefit of heterosexual couples as well.

Suggested Citation:

Terry, Keeva, Same-Sex Relationships, DOMA, and the Tax Code: Rethinking the Relevance of DOMA to Straight Couples (September 1, 2011). Columbia Journal of Gender and Law, Vol. 20.1, p. 383, 2011, Roger Williams Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 109, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1920852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Noting that there are a number of differences between the 'status' of a married couple and registrants under the DPRRA, the [state] Court held that the two are not identical
Cal.Rptr.3d , volume 687 Posted: 1926
Id
Crossref
Id
Crossref
Id
Accord CAL. CIV. PROC. § 703.110(a) (establishing that "two spouses together are entitled to one exemption
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
505,351
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Howard University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Roger Williams University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies