Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Discrimination: Still Stuck in the Labyrinth of Impossibility

Yale Law Journal, Forthcoming

Columbia Public Law Research Paper No. 11-282

Harvard Public Law Working Paper 11-24

46 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2011 Last revised: 13 Dec 2011

Michael J. Graetz

Columbia Law School; Yale Law School

Alvin C. Warren

Harvard Law School

Date Written: September 6, 2011

Abstract

In previous articles, we have argued that European Court of Justice’s reliance on nondiscrimination as the basis for its decisions did not (and could not) satisfy commonly accepted tax policy norms, such as fairness, adminstrability, production of desired levels of revenues, avoidance of double taxation, fiscal policy goals, inter-nation fiscal equity, and so on. In addition, we argued that the Court cannot achieve consistent and coherent results by requiring nondiscrimination in both origin and destination countries for transactions involving the tax systems of more than one member state. We demonstrated that - in the absence of harmonized income tax bases and rates - the Court had entered a “labyrinth of impossibility.” Ruth Mason and Michael Knoll claim to have discovered a single, normative criterion that not only resolves this dilemma, but also explains the existing nondiscrimination tax jurisprudence of both the European Court of Justice and the United States Supreme Court. In fact, their crucial, but unrealistic, assumption that taxpayers can never move from one state to another confines the actual scope of their analysis to a very small set of cases involving cross-border workers. Although they endorse economic efficiency as the guidestar for judicial decisions regarding tax discrimination, Mason and Knoll fail to provide any evidence that their proposed norm would reduce tax-induced distortions more than competing norms, even in the limited situations to which their analysis applies. Nor do they make a convincing case that they have found the key to understanding the confusing and inconsistent U.S. and EU judicial decisions, which are not confined to cross-border workers. Finally, implementation of their proposed norm by legislation or litigation is not practical, given the particular tax systems that they say would be required. In short, their proposed norm does not provide a way out of the “labyrinth of impossibility” created by a nondiscrimination approach to taxation of international transactions.

Keywords: taxation, discrimination, European Union, European Court of Justice

JEL Classification: F15, H20, H24, H25, J00

Suggested Citation:

Graetz, Michael J. and Warren, Alvin C., Income Tax Discrimination: Still Stuck in the Labyrinth of Impossibility (September 6, 2011). Yale Law Journal, Forthcoming, Columbia Public Law Research Paper No. 11-282, Harvard Public Law Working Paper 11-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1923809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
E G , Mihir Desai , James Hines
Evaluating International Tax Reform
Ownership Neutrality, Ownership Distortions, and International Tax Welfare Benchmarks, 26 Virginia Tax Review , volume 56 , p. 60 - 66 Posted: 2000
Mason
Saez Diamond
Crossref
E G , Harry Grubert &amp; Rosanne Altshuler
Corporate Taxes in the World Economy: Reforming the Taxation of Cross-­-Border Income
Fundamental Tax Reform: Issues, Choices, and Implications , volume 319
Load more
1 Citations
Marcel GH Schaper
The Structure and Organisation of EU Law in the Field of Direct Taxes
PhD Dissertation defended at Maastricht University on 18 December 2012, ISBN: 9789056814007 · 473 Pages · Posted: 7 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,722
RANK
244,564
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Columbia Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies