Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rules and Business Combination: A Case for Using the Amortization Adjusted Multiples

Business Valution Review, Spring 2007

14 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2011

Péter Harbula

Independent

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

The implementation of SFAS 141 and IFRS is not only a step towards fair value accounting but also has an impact on the financial statements. The amortization charge of intangible assets has a direct profit and loss statement impact to be considered when performing the market approach. The subsequent analysis aims to illustrate the distortion that the new accounting rules can cause on the way multiples are computed and what adjustment are necessary if we want to apply them consistently between companies with different capital structures.

Keywords: valuation multiples, SFAS 141, IFRS 3, intangible assets

JEL Classification: G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Harbula, Péter, Accounting Rules and Business Combination: A Case for Using the Amortization Adjusted Multiples (2007). Business Valution Review, Spring 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1925035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
226
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
RANK
308,936
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies