Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charitable Gifts by S Corporations: Opportunities and Challenges

American College of Trust and Estate Counsel (ACTEC) Law Journal, Vol. 36, pp. 477-515, Fall 2010

40 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2011 Last revised: 14 Sep 2011

Christopher R. Hoyt

University of Missouri at Kansas City - School of Law

Date Written: September 13, 2011

Abstract

This article examines the tax opportunities and tax hazards when a subchapter S corporation makes a charitable gift. The article demonstrates that usually the shareholders of an S corporation and the charity are both better off when an S corporation makes a charitable gift compared to having a shareholder make a charitable gift of S corporation stock. Either way, the income tax benefit will be on the S corporation shareholder’s personal income tax return. By having the S corporation make the gift, the parties avoid the “three bad things” that happen when a shareholder donates S corporation stock. The problems and solutions for a charitable gift of S corporation stock are analyzed in the companion article: Charitable Gifts by Subchapter S Corporations and Their Shareholders: Two Worlds of Law Collide, 36 ACTEC L.J. 693-768 (Spring 2011).

The opportunities include the ability to donate corporate property to a charitable remainder trust (CRT), a temporary enhanced income tax deduction for a gift of appreciated property (such as a conservation easement), the ability to avoid the Section 1374 built-in gains tax (even with a gift to a CRT), and the avoidance of the unrelated business income tax (UBIT).

The article also identifies hazards and ways to solve them. For example, an S corporation should avoid making a charitable gift to a charity while the charity is also a shareholder. It could be a prohibited “second class of stock.” Even a charitable gift to an unrelated charity can be a problem: a gift of a substantial portion of the corporation’s assets could be treated as a taxable corporate liquidation. Professor Hoyt identifies ways to reduce or even eliminate the potential tax liability triggered by such a large gift.

Keywords: tax, income tax, Subchapter S, S corporation, charitable gift, charitable contribution, charitable remainder trust, CRT, built-in gains tax, Section 1374, constructive dividend

JEL Classification: E6, H20, H21, H24, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hoyt, Christopher R., Charitable Gifts by S Corporations: Opportunities and Challenges (September 13, 2011). American College of Trust and Estate Counsel (ACTEC) Law Journal, Vol. 36, pp. 477-515, Fall 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,373
RANK
8,506
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies