Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charitable Gifts by S Corporations and Their Shareholders: Two Worlds of Law Collide

American College of Trust and Estate Counsel (ACTEC) Law Journal, Vol. 36, pp. 693-768, Spring 2011

76 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2011 Last revised: 14 Sep 2011

Christopher R. Hoyt

University of Missouri at Kansas City - School of Law

Date Written: September 13, 2011

Abstract

This comprehensive article analyzes the rules that apply to, and the tax planning strategies for, a charitable gift of S corporation stock. It describes the interaction of the laws governing S corporations and tax-exempt organizations and describes the best ways to solve the challenges posed by each set of laws. The article also addresses additional challenges that can occur when specific types of tax-exempt organizations own S corporation stock, notably private foundations, donor advised funds, supporting organizations and ESOPs.

From the perspective of both the donor and the charity, three “bad things" happen when S corporation stock is contributed to a charity: (1) the donor's income tax deduction is usually less than the stock’s appraised value; (2) the charity must pay the unrelated business income tax (UBIT) on its share of S corporation income; and (3) the charity must pay UBIT on its gain when it sells the stock. This is much harsher tax treatment than if the charity had received and sold an ownership interest in an identical closely-held business that had been organized as a C corporation, a limited liability company or a partnership. Professor Hoyt suggests specific legal reforms to make the tax treatment more consistent.

The article also identifies the best ways to structure a charitable gift under the existing laws, such as a donation to an intermediary charitable trust. In most cases, though, both the donor and the charity will be better off if the S corporation makes a charitable contribution of some of its assets compared to having a shareholder contribute S corporation stock.

Keywords: tax, income tax, Subchapter S, S corporation, charitable gift, charitable contribution, ESOP, private foundation, donor advised fund, supporting organization, unrelated business income tax, charitable lead trust, charitable remainder trust, CRT, UBIT

JEL Classification: E6, H20, H21, H24, K22

Suggested Citation:

Hoyt, Christopher R., Charitable Gifts by S Corporations and Their Shareholders: Two Worlds of Law Collide (September 13, 2011). American College of Trust and Estate Counsel (ACTEC) Law Journal, Vol. 36, pp. 693-768, Spring 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926693
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
PLR 200819006 , volume 90 Posted: 2003
Crossref
) and earlier rulings for the same corporation: PLRs
This strategy was used when the power was granted to a trustee in PLR , volume 92 Posted: 1999
I R C
Posted: 1958
I R C
1371(a)(1) (1976), amended by Tax Reform Act of 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,530
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,827
RANK
4,949
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies