Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparative Study of the Adoption and Implementation of Target Costing in the UK, Australia and New Zealand

International Journal of Production Economics, 2011

11 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2011

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 17, 2011

Abstract

Most of the studies on target costing (TC) only provide insight into the adoption and perceived benefits of TC, and do not address the levels of implementation of the technique. These studies also assume that TC is only relevant to manufacturing firms and therefore do not investigate the adoption of this technique in service firms, and consequently exclude service firms from their surveys and analysis. Furthermore, most studies do not examine factors influencing the adoption of TC systems. Contributing to these gaps in the literature, this paper reports the results of a survey among CIMA-qualified management accountants working in manufacturing and service firms in the UK, Australia and New Zealand on the adoption and implementation of TC. The study examines the importance of attributes of TC (namely relative advantage, compatibility, ease of use, result demonstrability, trialability) for decision makers to adopt and implement such cost and management accounting innovation. The survey indicates that TC is equally prevalent among manufacturing and service firms while in terms of the levels of implementation there is a significant difference between manufacturing and service firms. The study shows that there is a growing interest in the examination of all cost-reducing strategies at the planning stage and adoption of value engineering to incorporate customer requirements rather than focusing on the adoption of cost-cutting strategies at the production stage.

Keywords: Target costing, Diffusion of innovations, Attributes of innovation, Implementation, Manufacturing, Service

Suggested Citation:

Yazdifar, Hassan and Askarany, Davood, A Comparative Study of the Adoption and Implementation of Target Costing in the UK, Australia and New Zealand (September 17, 2011). International Journal of Production Economics, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1929236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
E Abrahamson , L Rosenkopf
When do bandwagon diffusions roll? How far do they go? and When do they roll backwards?: a computer simulation
Academy of Managenment Best Papers Proceedings , volume 50 , p. 155 - 159 Posted: 1990
Crossref
E Abrahamson , L Rosenkopf
Institutional and competitive bandwagons
Academy of Management Review , volume 18 , p. 487 - 517 Posted: 1993
E Abrahamson , L Rosenkopf
Social network effects on the extent of innovation diffusion: a computer simulation
Organization Science , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R Aggarwal , J Prasad
The role of innovation characteristics and perceived voluntariness in the acceptance of information technologies
Decision Sciences , volume 28 , p. 557 - 582 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Fernando Zanella
Competitive Environment and Corporate Constructs of Price and Costs in the UAE
Corporate Ownership & Control, 2020 · 13 Pages · Posted: 21 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hassan Yazdifar , Davood Askarany , Danture Wickramasinghe , Ahmad Nasseri , Ashraful Alam
The Diffusion of Management Accounting Innovations in Dependent (Subsidiary) Organizations and MNCs
The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 54, No. 1 (2019), The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper · 42 Pages · Posted: 2 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 81
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fangjuan Qiu , Nan Hu , Peng Liang , Kevin Dow
Measuring Management Accounting Practices Using Textual Analysis
Qiu, F., Hu, N., Liang, P., & Dow, K. (2023). Measuring management accounting practices using textual analysis. Management Accounting Research, 58, 100818. · 16 Pages · Posted: 6 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 4 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 680
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mohamed Elbaz
Towards Agile Manufacturing: Accounting Techniques Perspectives
24 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2021 · Downloads: 158
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
880
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,223
RANK
62,467
9 Citations
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Attributes of Innovation and the Implementation of Managerial Tools: An Activity-Based Management Technique

By Davood Askarany, Malcolm Smith, ...

Contextual Factors and Administrative Changes

By Davood Askarany and Malcolm Smith

Characteristics of Adopters and Organizational Changes

By Davood Askarany

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies