Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation into the Mixed Reported Adoption Rates for ABC: Evidence from Australia, New Zealand and the UK

International Journal of Production Economics, 2011

10 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2011

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Date Written: August 21, 2011

Abstract

An accumulated body of the literature confirms that the adoption of activity-based costing (ABC) can lead to a substantial improvement in organisational performance, productivity and profitability, and therefore encourages further adoption of the technique. However, studies investigating the diffusion of ABC have reported inconsistent and mixed results. This could cause uncertainty for many potential adopters of ABC (especially for those who follow the fashion and fads approaches) and influence their tendencies towards the adoption of ABC in the future. Addressing the diffusion process as a contextual factor, this study simultaneously investigates the adoption of ABC from the perspectives of different diffusion processes. Using two commonly adopted diffusion processes (the stages of adoption and the levels of adoption), this study examines the relationship between the reported adoption rates for ABC and the diffusion process approaches chosen to measure its adoption rates in three western countries: Australia, New Zealand and the UK. A similar questionnaire was used and more than 2000 qualified CIMA members (via a survey study and follow-up interviews) were targeted. The findings suggest a significant association between the reported adoption rates for ABC and the diffusion process approaches chosen to measure the adoption rates. The findings further suggest that the lack of a common understanding of ABC systems may have also contributed to the mixed reported adoption rates for ABC, as many ABC adopters have considered themselves adopters of traditional accounting systems by mistake (especially when they are dealing with ‘facility costs’ as one of the main cost hierarchies under ABC systems).

Keywords: Activity-based costing, Diffusion of innovation, Contextual factors, Adoption processes

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood and Yazdifar, Hassan, An Investigation into the Mixed Reported Adoption Rates for ABC: Evidence from Australia, New Zealand and the UK (August 21, 2011). International Journal of Production Economics, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1929248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Abrahamson
Managerial fads and fashions: the diffusion and rejection of innovations
Academy of Management Review , volume 16 , p. 586 - 612 Posted: 1991
Crossref
E Abrahamson
Management fashion
The Academy of Management Review , volume 21 , p. 254 - 285 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S M Adam , A J Fred
Extent of ABC use and its consequence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 533 - 566 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,217
RANK
142,302
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Attributes of Innovation and the Implementation of Managerial Tools: An Activity-Based Management Technique

By Davood Askarany, Malcolm Smith, ...

Contextual Factors and Administrative Changes

By Davood Askarany and Malcolm Smith

Characteristics of Adopters and Organizational Changes

By Davood Askarany

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies