Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for a 'Super-Matching' Rule

61 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2011

Yaron Z. Reich

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 20, 2011

Abstract

This paper discusses the consistency (matching) concept in the tax law, and how mismatches in the treatment of offsetting and other related items might be addressed by Congress, the Treasury and the IRS.

Keywords: tax, consistency, matching, mismatches, tax reform

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Reich, Yaron Z., The Case for a 'Super-Matching' Rule (September 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1932850 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1932850
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
The certainty of rules has been argued to inherently come at the cost of producing some results that are unfair or incorrect. Miller, supra note 182, 68 Wash. L. Rev. at 70 ("[T]he simultaneous effort to achieve both fairness and certainty through great elaboration of the rules of taxation is inherently contradictory
Kennedy
The choice of rules as the mode of intervention involves the sacrifice of precision in the achievement of the objectives lying behind the rules
Harv. L. Rev. at , volume 1689
See generally the authorities cited in footnote 182 supra. See also Edward Zelinsky, Another Look at Tax Law Simplicity, 47 Tax Notes 1225 (1990) (focusing on relationship between the tax law's complexity and substantive tax policy)
Gordon D Henderson
Controlling Hyperlexis -The Most Important "Law And
43 Tax Law , volume 177 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
154,405
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies