Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Research Tax Credit: Accounting for Nexus

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 12, No. 2, p. 47, April-May 2011

6 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2011

Kreig D. Mitchell

Mitchell Tax Law; Kreig LLC

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

The research tax credit is popular with politicians and taxpayers. It has not been as well received by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The research tax credit continues to generate quite a bit of controversy between the government and taxpayers. Much of this controversy stems from the IRS’s attempt to impose a stringent substantiation requirement for research tax credits. This requirement has been rejected by Congress and, recently, by several courts.

The IRS has not been deterred and has redoubled its efforts. Its latest angle is to replace the word “substantiation” with the word “nexus.” In addition to putting a new name on the old concept, the IRS is using its nexus idea to impose a heightened recordkeeping requirement. This heightened requirement makes the availability of the research tax credit contingent on whether the taxpayer creates and keeps project-based records. This article examines nexus and the IRS’s heightened recordkeeping requirement for the research tax credit.

Keywords: research tax credit, nexus, R&D tax credit, R&E tax credit

JEL Classification: H2, H25

Suggested Citation:

Mitchell, Kreig D., The Research Tax Credit: Accounting for Nexus (April 1, 2011). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 12, No. 2, p. 47, April-May 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1933248
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Code Sec , volume 41 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Code Sec , volume 41 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Code Sec , volume 41 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Reg
, p. 41 - 45
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
470,088
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies