Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Code Sec. 41 Research and Experimentation Tax Credit Audit Considerations

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 9, No. 7, p. 69, February-March 2008

8 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2011

Kreig D. Mitchell

Mitchell Tax Law; Kreig LLC

Date Written: February 1, 2008

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code Section (“Code Sec.”) 41 research and experimentation tax credit was enacted in 1981 to provide a significant tax incentive to encourage taxpayers to increase domestic research and experimentation spending. However, recent IRS audit initiatives and procedures frustrate this goal, forcing many taxpayers to make a difficult business decision: claim the Code Sec. 41 tax credit as provided by Congress and face the almost certain prospect of a costly and time-consuming IRS audit, or forgo the Code Sec. 41 tax credit altogether.

This article discusses the recent IRS initiatives and current audit procedures related to Code Sec. 41 tax credits. This article also explores the initial audit considerations and potential audit hazards that taxpayers encounter during Code Sec. 41 audits. Finally, an overview of the IRS’s research credit recordkeeping agreement program is provided

Keywords: research tax credit, research tax credit audit, R&D tax credit, R&D tax credit audit

JEL Classification: H2, H25

Suggested Citation:

Mitchell, Kreig D., Code Sec. 41 Research and Experimentation Tax Credit Audit Considerations (February 1, 2008). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 9, No. 7, p. 69, February-March 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1933251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
528,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies