Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Getting a Rule Right and Writing a Wrong Rule: The IRS Demands a Return on All Punitive Damages

Connecticut Law Review, Vol. 17, p. 39, 1984

56 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2011

Mary Jane Morrison

Hamline University - School of Law

Date Written: January 1, 1984

Abstract

This article focuses on the Internal Revenue Service’s view of punitive damages received in personal injury litigation as non-taxable. In 1984, the IRS ruling (based on a 1975 revenue ruling) was reversed. The author explains what the 1975 ruling really meant, why that rule was correct, and why the 1984 ruling is based on a correct principle but is incorrect in its particulars. The thesis of this article is that, although punitive damages ought always be taxable, not every award that is legitimately described as punitive or that is intimately connected to the culpability of the tortfeasor is the kind of punitive damages that ought to be taxable.

Keywords: IRS, punitive damages, personal injury litigation, taxable

Suggested Citation:

Morrison, Mary Jane, Getting a Rule Right and Writing a Wrong Rule: The IRS Demands a Return on All Punitive Damages (January 1, 1984). Connecticut Law Review, Vol. 17, p. 39, 1984, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1935038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,203
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies