Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountant-Client Privilege Statutes: A Clear Need for Reform

Seton Hall Legislative Journal, Vol. 8, 1984

11 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2012

David Allen Larson

Mitchell | Hamline School of Law

Date Written: October 2, 2011

Abstract

The accountant-client privilege is being recognized by statute in an increasing number of states. This privilege was not recognized under the common law and noticeable differences have arisen among those states that do grant the privilege. The author argues all of these statutes have serious and disturbing shortcomings. This article will address those shortcomings and recommend several necessary amendments. In the course of that discussion comments and comparisons are made between the various state statutes, examining their similarities and assessing their differences. Finally, this article will focus upon the desirability of recognizing any privilege of this nature and suggest that the privilege should ultimately be abandoned. It is the author’s intention that this discussion prompt legislators to review their existing statutes in order to determine whether either revision or repeal of the accountant-client privilege is necessary.

Keywords: Account-client privilege, parties protected, clients

Suggested Citation:

Larson, David Allen, Accountant-Client Privilege Statutes: A Clear Need for Reform (October 2, 2011). Seton Hall Legislative Journal, Vol. 8, 1984, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1937200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,837
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies