Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Direct Taxes Code: Changing Paradigm of Tax Rules in India

Expert Guide - Tax, September 2011

5 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2011

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: September 12, 2011

Abstract

The Government of India submitted the ‘Direct Taxes Code’ Bill, 2010 the Parliament in August, 2010. The Code, expected to come into force from the next financial year i.e. 1st April 2012, is not just a regular amendment but replaces all the existing direct tax laws in India. The drafters have also worked 'on a clean drafting slate'. This seems to be sufficient impetus for a deeper scrutiny of the Code for all those who derive income from India and thus would be subject to the rigours of the Code. While the changes proposed are multifold, this paper limits it coverage to focus on key changes in the international taxation front.

Keywords: Direct Taxes Code, international taxation, India

JEL Classification: E62, H25, H26, H29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, Direct Taxes Code: Changing Paradigm of Tax Rules in India (September 12, 2011). Expert Guide - Tax, September 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1938847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,165
RANK
413,954
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies