Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS: Advantages and Challenges - A Summary of the Findings of Some Existing Literature

The Bangladesh Accountant, Vol. 63, No. 34, pp. 70-81, 2009

11 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2011

Yousuf Kamal

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abdus Sobhan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tanzina Haque

University of Dhaka - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: June 1, 2009

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to provide a summary of the finding of the fast -growing theoretical and empirical literature on IFRS mainly basing on scholarly articles. The main emphasis was given on the costs and benefits of IFRS. Principal claimed benefit of IFRS is the lower costs of capital. Detailed analysis is done on research issues such as IFRS and costs of information generation and interpretation, IFRS and earnings management, IFRS and higher value relevance of information, IFRS and higher liquidity of company’s shares through greater marketability, IFRS and information asymmetry between managers and external investors, IFRS and cost of capital. Major challenges to implement IFRS and thus, optimal harmonization are discussed based on its high initial implementation costs and other factors that prevent the achievement of optimal convergence of accounting practices.

Keywords: IFRS, Harmonization, Convergence

Suggested Citation:

Kamal, Yousuf and Sobhan, Abdus and Haque, Tanzina, IFRS: Advantages and Challenges - A Summary of the Findings of Some Existing Literature (June 1, 2009). The Bangladesh Accountant, Vol. 63, No. 34, pp. 70-81, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1944522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
834
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,085
RANK
67,241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies