Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Data Sources in Australia

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 83-92, 2012

10 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2012

Mariya Yesseleva-Pionka

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Small- and medium-sized enterprises constitute a significant sector in any economy. Academic research studies, which analyze various dimensions of small- and medium-sized sector in Australia, reiterate the importance of availability and reliability of data sources regarding these firms. Any research study has to be supported with reliable data sources that provide comprehensive, consistent and timely information, enhancing the significance of research results. This article provides information on eleven data sources for conducting a research on small- and medium-sized enterprises in Australia. The main aim of this article is to support the continuance of research in this crucial business sector. The data presented in this article provides vital information for researchers interested in conducting studies on different aspects of small- and medium-sized enterprise sector.

Keywords: small business, SMEs, data sources, research in Australia

JEL Classification: M15, C80

Suggested Citation:

Yesseleva-Pionka, Mariya, Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises: Data Sources in Australia (2011). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 83-92, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1945887
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Financing Small and Medium Enterprises Challenges and Options
apec.org Australian Bankers' Association Posted: 2003-12-03
History of ABA. Retrieved
Australian Bankers' Association Posted: 2011-01-30
Small business in Australia Retrieved
Australian Bureau of Statistics Posted: 2009-09-23
Technical Manual: Business Longitudinal Survey
Australian Bureau of Statistics Posted: 2009-02-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,751
RANK
251,810
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies