Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Flat is the Flat Tax

Posted: 13 Feb 2013

Georgi S. Smatrakalev

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: April 15, 2010

Abstract

The tax system is one of the most reformed and most discussed system from the economic systems in any economy. As it comes to taxes everyone is an expert as we all pay them. The last decades are going under the influence of the flat tax. Numerous countries adopted the idea of the so called flat tax “revolution”.

This paper will make an outline on this revolution and its impact on the economic development in the countries implemented the flat tax. It will present the pros and cons for such change and does flat mean fair.

Keywords: taxation, tax ploicy, flat tax, Bulgaria

JEL Classification: H2, H24, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Smatrakalev, Georgi Stoyanov, How Flat is the Flat Tax (April 15, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1945919
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies