Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What's Next in the Section 6501(E) Overstated Basis Controversy?

ABA Section of Taxation Newsquarterly, Vol. 20, p. 19, 2009

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper

3 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2011

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: October, 20 2011

Abstract

Section 650l(e) is among the exceptions to the normal three-year statute of limitations on assessment. Under section 650l(e)(1), a six-year limitations period applies "[i]f the taxpayer omits from gross income an amount properly includible therein which is in excess of 25 percent of the amount of gross income stated in the return." The six-year period clearly applies when the taxpayer fails to report taxable receipts surpassing the 25% threshold. Does it also apply when overstatement of basis sufficiently reduces reported gain on the sale of assets, particularly when the sale is not incident to conduct of a trade or business?

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., What's Next in the Section 6501(E) Overstated Basis Controversy? (October, 20 2011). ABA Section of Taxation Newsquarterly, Vol. 20, p. 19, 2009, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,107
RANK
772,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies