Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US Adoption of IFRS May Help to Jumpstart the US Economy

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 109-118, 2012

10 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2012 Last revised: 9 Feb 2014

Anne B. Fosbre

Millennium Teaching University

Ellen M. Kraft

Richard Stockton College of New Jersey

Paul B. Fosbre

New Jersey City University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

The United States prompt adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may help to jumpstart the US economy. Investors would be able to make comparisons and evaluate investment opportunities worldwide. US Multinational companies would be able to cut costs. In preparation of financial statements using IFRS the results presented usually portray higher figures. This would help to present more favorable valuations and help to promote growth with improved financial reporting. The result will be more job opportunities, a reduction in uncertainties, and may help to jumpstart the US economy. This paper examines existing differences in required reporting by the SEC as well as other factors affecting the adoption of IFRS in the US. We will review the effects of not adopting IFRS that may have contributed to the delay in the recovery of the US economy and the uncertainty that has been created.

Keywords: IFRS, US economy, FIFO, LIFO

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fosbre, Anne B. and Kraft, Ellen M. and Fosbre, Paul B., US Adoption of IFRS May Help to Jumpstart the US Economy (2011). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 109-118, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Abinbev
Anheuser-Busch InBev reports First Quarter Posted: 2009-11-21
Accounting Trends and Techniques
AICPA , issue 62 Posted: 2008
T Buthe , W Mattli
Posted: 2008-11
Crossref
F Chua , S Taylor
The rise and rise of IFRS: an examination of IFRS diffusion
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 462 - 473 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,584
RANK
192,204
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies