Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rotational Internal Audit Programs and Financial Reporting Quality: Do Compensating Controls Help?

67 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2011 Last revised: 2 Apr 2015

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

Adi Masli

University of Arkansas - Sam M. Walton College of Business

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 1, 2015

Abstract

A report from the Institute of Internal Auditors finds that a majority of Fortune 500 companies systematically rotate internal auditors out of the internal audit function and into operational management (IIA 2009a). We use semi-structured interviews with 11 chief audit executives and 2 audit committee chairmen to develop an initial framework focusing on how this practice affects financial reporting quality. We then test these associations with archival data and find that companies that use a rotational staffing model for the internal audit function have significantly lower financial reporting quality than companies that do not. However, we find that several compensating controls identified from the interviews (e.g., consistency of IAF leadership or supervision, audit committee oversight, and management oversight and direction) can reduce this adverse financial reporting effect. We conclude that companies should consider the potential costs of using a rotational staffing model in the internal audit function and, if adopting this practice, should ensure the appropriate compensating controls are in place to mitigate such costs.

Keywords: internal audit function; accounting risk; management training ground; rotational staffing models; audit committee; financial reporting quality; compensating controls

JEL Classification: M41, M43, G34, M52

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Margaret H. and Masli, Adi and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wood, David A., Rotational Internal Audit Programs and Financial Reporting Quality: Do Compensating Controls Help? (April 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1946518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1946518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Lawrence Abbott , Brian Daugherty , Susan Parker , Gary F. Peters
Internal Audit Quality and Financial Reporting Quality: The Joint Importance of Independence and Competence
Pages: 53 Posted: 13 Oct 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S _____ , G F Parker , Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
_____
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
The Accounting Review , volume 82 , issue 4 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 767 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,960
RANK
39,620
20 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies