Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Board’s Responsibility for Information Technology Governance

John Marshall Journal of Computer & Information Law, Vol. 29, p. 313, 2011

32 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2011 Last revised: 24 Dec 2017

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Kara Altenbaumer-Price

U.S.I.

Date Written: December 17, 2010

Abstract

Few enterprise operational areas present as much inherent risk or prove as difficult to govern as Information Technology (“IT”). To be successful, IT governance requires enterprise commitment at the very top. Boards and executive management need to extend governance, already exercised over the enterprise, to IT by way of an effective IT governance framework that addresses strategic alignment, performance measurement, risk management, value delivery, and resource management. IT governance is an integral part of enterprise governance and consists of the leadership and organizational structures and processes that ensure that the organization’s IT sustains and extends the organization’s strategies and objectives. Simply put, IT governance and the effective application of an IT governance framework are the responsibilities of the board of directors and executive management. An IT governance framework, such as Control Objectives for Information and related Technology (COBIT) can be a critical element in ensuring proper control and governance over information and the systems that create, store, manipulate and retrieve it. But these risks do not have to be shouldered by the company alone. Many can be transferred to or shared with insurance.

Every Governance and Nominating Committee must access its current inventory of director skill sets to require IT expertise. One choice will be to have and include IT expertise within a dedicated Risk Committee. Best practice for many will dictate that an audit committee include IT expertise and be composed of a qualified vice chairman, familiar with the company’s particular audit issues by virtue of experience gained from audit committee service. This will help provide an instant replacement for the committee chair should unexpected developments require. Therefore, every board should have at least two qualified financial experts populating the audit committee and seek IT expertise and experience in director recruitment to help avoid and address the costly private and regulatory lawsuits related to cyber issues that increasingly facing companies. Every board’s challenge in addressing IT risk is ongoing vigilance and recognition of the mission critical nature of Information Technology to the enterprise.

Keywords: Audit Committee, Business Continuity Planning, Business Judgment Rule, Chief Information Officer, Corporate Governance, Cybersecurity, Disaster Recovery, Disclosure, Dodd-Frank, Duty of Care Loyalty, E-Commerce, Enterprise Systems, Hacking, Information Architecture, Information Security, Privacy,

JEL Classification: C88, G34, G38, H56, K22, K42, L21, L86, M10, O30, O32, O33, O38

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J. and Altenbaumer-Price, Kara, The Board’s Responsibility for Information Technology Governance (December 17, 2010). John Marshall Journal of Computer & Information Law, Vol. 29, p. 313, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,042
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,824
RANK
49,439
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies