Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Paradigm for IRS Guidance: Ensuring Input and Enhancing Participation

Florida Tax Review, 2011

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2011-13

71 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2011

Leslie Book

Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2011

Abstract

This article highlights how, in light of the increasing role that the IRS plays in the lives of poorer and marginalized individuals, when promulgating rules, the IRS will have to go beyond the mechanism of the APA notice and comment regime to ensure robust public participation. While others have discussed the IRS’s approach to the notice and comment regime, commentators generally have overlooked the problems associated with lower income taxpayers’ lack of voice in the rulemaking process. To remedy that shortfall, I call for changes in agency conduct to encourage public participation in formulating rules. I build upon a model proposed by administrative law scholars who have suggested legislative reform to the APA and changes in agency practice to place greater responsibility on administrative agencies to gather input from regulated parties. I argue that the IRS, when confronted with the need to formulate rules that are likely to impact the lives of disadvantaged or low income taxpayers, should, to the extent feasible, affirmatively seek out the input of taxpayers, consumer groups, and expert intermediaries. The article builds on scholars who have considered the role that proxies can play to help address pluralistic imbalances and considers the possible role that two key institutional actors, the Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) and low income taxpayer clinics, can play in the IRS’s rulemaking function. My proposed expansion of the role of TAS and clinics would allow the IRS to harness the collective wisdom of its increasingly diverse constituency and enhance the legitimacy of the rules it promulgates.

Keywords: APA, rulemaking, IRS, notice and comment, low income taxpayers, taxpayer advocate service

Suggested Citation:

Book, Leslie, A New Paradigm for IRS Guidance: Ensuring Input and Enhancing Participation (October 1, 2011). Florida Tax Review, 2011, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2011-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Id
at 18 citing Brian Camp, What Good is the National Taxpayer Advocate?
126 TAX NOTES 1234 Posted: 2010-03-08
See Wagner supra note 150
Id
Wagner also references other areas of agency regulations that have also been plagued by information capture. Id. at note18 citing Pete Tridish & Danielle Redden, Radio Controlled: A Media Activist's Guide to the FCC!, PROMETHEUS PROJECT Posted: 2006-02-12
Troy A. Paredes
Blinded by the Light: Information Overload and its Consequences for Securities Regulation
Washington University Law Quarterly, Forthcoming Pages: 59 Posted: 7 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,242
RANK
388,855
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies