Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Finding the Outer Limits of IRS Accounting Discretion: The Kollman Case

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 109-122, 2012

14 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2012

Deborah K. Jones

Wayne State University

Albert D. Spalding

Wayne State University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The statutory language of the Internal Revenue Code gives cognizance to the methods of accounting used by taxpayers for their financial reporting. The 1979 U.S. Supreme Court opinion of Thor Power acceded to the Internal Revenue Service a significant amount of discretion in its attempt to require taxpayers to change and adapt their accounting methods to its satisfaction. In particular, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue’s seemingly absolute authority to prohibit lower of cost or market inventory valuation was upheld. Until the recent Tax Court decision in the case of United States v. Kollman, in fact, there were few guidelines that helped to delineate the outer limits of the IRS’s discretion in demanding taxpayer adherence to its preferred tax accounting methods. This paper considers how the parameters for a taxpayers’ ability to challenge this discretion have been significantly clarified, if not changed, by the Kollman case. We discuss the clear reflection of income doctrine as it has evolved over time and examine the impact of recent judicial decisions – especially Kollman – on this standard and consider whether or not there is need for revision on the law in this area. We conclude that the Commissioner’s authority to arbitrarily require specific methods of accounting is in fact limited, and that the Kollman case serves as a helpful marker of the outer limits of such authority.

Keywords: tax accounting, lower of cost or market, inventory valuation, tax administration

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Deborah K. and Spalding, Albert D., Finding the Outer Limits of IRS Accounting Discretion: The Kollman Case (2012). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 109-122, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
United States Code (USC) § § , volume 446 Posted: 2010
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) § §1 , volume 1 , p. 1 - 471 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Altec Corp
, p. 1977 - 438 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Artnell Co
Commissioner, 400 F.2d 981 (7th Cir Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
347,495
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies