Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Hispanic Opinion

Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 53-74, 2012

22 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2012

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Arsen M. Djatej

Eastern Washington University

Robert H. Sarikas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The present paper is an empirical study, the goal of which is to determine the strength of various arguments that have been used to justify tax evasion and to determine whether results differ based on certain demographic variables. A survey instrument was constructed using a seven-point Likert and distributed to 316 business students at a university in South Texas. The 18 arguments were ranked in terms of strength, from strongest to weakest. Comparisons were also made according to gender, age, and academic major to determine if the viewpoints for these demographics were significantly different. Academic major was the only demographic variable where significant differences in opinion were found. For some of the 18 arguments justifying tax evasion, accounting students were significantly more averse to tax evasion than were business and economics majors. Some arguments justifying tax evasion were stronger than others. The strongest arguments for evading taxes were in cases where the government engaged in human rights abuses. Other strong arguments were in cases where the tax system was perceived as unfair, where tax rates were too high, where government officials were corrupt or where tax funds were not spent wisely.

Keywords: tax evasion, Hispanic, gender, age, major, demographic

JEL Classification: H26, J1, J14, J15, J16, K34, M4

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Djatej, Arsen M. and Sarikas, Robert H., The Ethics of Tax Evasion: A Survey of Hispanic Opinion (2012). Accounting & Taxation, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 53-74, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1947032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
I P Akaah
Differences in Research Ethics Judgments Between Male and Female Marketing Professionals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 375 - 381 Posted: 1989
Crossref
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 323 - 338
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Estimating the Determinants of Tax Morale. National Tax AssociationTax Institute of America
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting , p. 269 - 274 Posted: 2004
E Babakus , T B Cornwell , V Mitchell , B Schlegelmilch
Reactions to Unethical Consumer Behavior across Six Countries
The Journal of Consumer Marketing , volume 21 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 254 - 263 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
RANK
153,575
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Jewish Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Christian Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

Three Views on the Ethics of Tax Evasion

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies