Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pro-Taxpayer Interpretation of State-Local Tax Laws

State Tax Notes, p. 441, February 2009

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper

4 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2011

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: ,

Abstract

Sometimes, from a taxpayer's perspective, it is better to be challenging a state or local tax determination than a federal tax determination. One reason for that is the canon that "[tax] statutes are to be construed most favorably for the taxpayer." Scores, if not hundreds, of federal tax cases espoused that principle, especially during the 1890s to 1940s. However, the principle fell into disuse at the federal level in ensuing decades and, indeed, was replaced by prorevenue canons. A seeming attempt to revivify the canon at the federal level earlier this decade appears to have withered on the vine. In contrast, the pro-taxpayer canon retains vigor in cases involving state and local taxation. The Mississippi Supreme Court remarked: "It is a well established rule that a taxing statute must be strictly construed against the taxing power and in favor of the taxpayer, and all doubts as to whether or not a tax has been imposed must be resolved in favor of the taxpayer." Many state decisions have held to the same effect in cases involving a wide range of state and local levies.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Pro-Taxpayer Interpretation of State-Local Tax Laws (,). State Tax Notes, p. 441, February 2009, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1948696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,242
RANK
668,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies