Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Lost Tax Revenue Property Under Rico?

State Tax Notes, p. 307, April 26, 2010

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper

4 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2011

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

The last installment of this column began an examination of the use of the federal civil RICO Act in state and local tax administration controversies. This installment closes the loop by answering questions posed, but not resolved, last time. This column explores whether uncollected tax revenue - or loss of the opportunity to collect tax revenue - constitutes 'business or property' under the civil RICO statute. This exploration also takes up the related question whether tax authorities will be able to overcome judicial reluctance to turning RICO into a tax collection statute.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Is Lost Tax Revenue Property Under Rico? (October 31, 2011). State Tax Notes, p. 307, April 26, 2010, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1952152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
RANK
545,548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies