Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sale of State Tax Credits: A Tax Court Decision Isn’t a Tempel of Doom

Journal Taxation of Investments. Vol. 91, Summer 2011

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2011-26

7 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2011 Last revised: 21 Apr 2025

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

In Tempel v. Commissioner, decided in April 2011, the Tax Court came to a number of important conclusions about sales of state income tax credits that occurred shortly after the credits had been received. The gain was held to be capital gain (with the court implicitly concluding that the credits were property), but the holding period for the credits began at receipt and the taxpayers had no basis in the credits. The bottom line was that the gain was short-term capital gain, with no basis offset, a negative result for these taxpayers. But the Tax Court’s conclusion that the credits were capital assets creates planning opportunities for others.

Keywords: Tempel v. Commissioner, Tax Court decision, state income tax credits, capital gains

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., The Sale of State Tax Credits: A Tax Court Decision Isn’t a Tempel of Doom (June 1, 2011). Journal Taxation of Investments. Vol. 91, Summer 2011, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2011-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1952054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies