Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incentives for Conservation Easements: The Charitable Deduction or a Better Way

Law & Contemporary Problems, Vol. 74, p. 29, Fall 2011

22 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2011

Daniel I. Halperin

Harvard Law School

Date Written: Ocober 13, 2011

Abstract

Therefore, to give greater assurance that the public benefit of the gift will be consistent with the claimed deduction, the donee should be required to certify that it has selected the easement consistent with its mission and it has both the resources to manage and enforce the restriction and a commitment to do so. Moreover, it is inappropriate to measure the charitable deduction by the supposed loss in value to the donor from the imposition of the easement. The focus should be on actual benefit to charity. Therefore, eligibility for a charitable deduction for a conservation easement should be contingent on certification – by a public agency or, possibly, an IRS-accredited land trust – that the public benefit from the contribution is equivalent to the claimed deduction.

In fact, the recent changes to various tax-expenditure programs – placing caps on the expenditures and requiring the participation of expert agencies – indicates that Congress is less enamored than it once was with open-ended tax expenditures administered solely by the Treasury Department. This suggests a cap on tax credits for the contribution of conservation easements. Even if the program is open-ended, Congress should mandate participation of an expert agency such as the Bureau of Land Management, which is more capable of evaluating the public value of an easement.

Keywords: Charitable Deduction, Conservation Easements, Tax Expenditures

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H41, H57, K32, K34, L31, O24, Q38

Suggested Citation:

Halperin, Daniel I., Incentives for Conservation Easements: The Charitable Deduction or a Better Way (Ocober 13, 2011). Law & Contemporary Problems, Vol. 74, p. 29, Fall 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1954086
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
See Stephen , J Small
Proper-and-Improper Deductions for Conservation Easements, Including Developer Donations, 105 TAX NOTES 217-224 Posted: 2004-10-11
I R C
Annual tax expenditures for fiscal year 2010 are estimated to be $4.7 billion for corporations and $300 million for individuals
STAFF OF THE JOINT COMM. ON TAXATION , volume 252 Posted: 2085
Cong Estimates Of Federal , Tax , For , Years
Under the program, state agencies have wide discretion in setting criteria by which they will award credits to proposed projects Posted: 2009
I R S Notice
-16 I.R.B. 802. Tax credits for the "qualifying gasification project program" under I.R.C. § 48B were authorized by section 112 of the Energy Improvement and Extension Act of Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
364,553
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies