Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using 'Delaware Tax Trap' to Avoid Generation-Skipping Taxes

Journal of Taxation, Vol. 68, pp. 242-248, 1988

7 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2012 Last revised: 13 Apr 2012

Jeffrey N. Pennell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jonathan G. Blattmachr

Milbank LLP

Date Written: November 3, 2011

Abstract

The “Delaware Tax Trap” of Internal Revenue Code §2041(a)(3) historically was a provision to be avoided but it can be a useful means of incurring estate tax rather than a more expensive generation-skipping transfer tax in situations in which the beneficiary should decide which tax to incur. This article introduces readers to the operation of this arcane provision and how it can be utilized by a beneficiary’s estate plan to best engineer the tax treatment that will apply when the beneficiary’s interest in a generation-skipping trust terminates.

Suggested Citation:

Pennell, Jeffrey N. and Blattmachr, Jonathan G., Using 'Delaware Tax Trap' to Avoid Generation-Skipping Taxes (November 3, 2011). Journal of Taxation, Vol. 68, pp. 242-248, 1988, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1954062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,295
RANK
32,917
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies