Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From SAS to IFRS - Emerging Issues and Implications for Nigeria

12 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2011

Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: November 7, 2011

Abstract

This paper attempts to re-examine the decision of Nigeria to begin a phased adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as from 2012.Certain emerging issues have made this important. They include researches on the effects of IFRS from the perspective of early adopters, the timeline set for adoption of IFRS by Nigeria, the current state of accounting, legal, regulatory and technological infrastructure in Nigeria and the delay by U.S., one of the major trading partners of Nigeria to make a firm commitment as to its date of adoption. Extensive review of theoretical and empirical literature was undertaken. The state of readiness of Nigeria to make a smooth transition was found to be very much in doubt. It will be in the overall interest of Nigeria to delay mandatory adoption for a little while.

Keywords: SAS, IFRS, Issues, Implications, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Chukwunedu, Okaro Sunday, From SAS to IFRS - Emerging Issues and Implications for Nigeria (November 7, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1956027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1956027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Access Bank , A Bank
International Financial Reporting Standards
COMMUNQUE. International Conference on IFRS Posted: 2010
C P Agoglia , T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
Principles-based versus rules-based accounting standards: The influence of standard precision and audit committee strength on financial reporting decisions
The Accounting Review , volume 86 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue I Posted: 2006
Crossref
Rachel F. Baskerville
100 Questions (and Answers) About IFRS
Pages: 64 Posted: 25 Jan 2010 Last revised: 31 Jul 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,635
RANK
42,649
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies