Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferred Tax Assets & the Disclosure of Tax Planning Strategies

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 31-46, 2011

24 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2011

Charles W. Mulford

Georgia Institute of Technology - Accounting Area

Eugene E. Comiskey

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 9, 2011

Abstract

Citigroup, Inc and American International Group, Inc have two very disparate views on the realisability of their deferred tax assets. Important to each company’s decision is the assessed availability or lack of tax-planning strategies needed to generate future taxable income. Yet, notwithstanding the importance of such strategies to these firms and others generally, little is known about them. Further, we find that companies are often not forthcoming in their disclosures of what tax-planning strategies are available to them and how they might be used. Investors and analysts could use this information in assessing the likelihood of future taxable income and the need for a valuation allowance against reported deferred tax assets.

In this research report we look closely at tax-planning strategies and the details, or lack thereof, provided by firms in describing them. From a sample of 34 firms drawn from recent filings with the SEC, we identify and categorize tax-planning strategies currently being used. We find that investment-related tax-planning strategies, eg., selling appreciated securities or switching tax-exempt securities to taxable ones are the most common strategy in use, comprising 47 per cent of our sample. Planned sales of other assets comprise 16 per cent and transactions related to sale and leaseback transactions and other income-acceleration transactions constitute 13 per cent of the sample. Five percent of the sample each employ a permanent reinvestment of foreign subsidiary earnings or capitalizing R&D costs for tax purposes. The remaining sample firms use a host of other miscellaneous practices, including the purchase of replacement properties, the merging of subsidiaries, or the shifting of entities to lower tax-rate jurisdictions. Given the general lack of disclosures observed, the FASB may wish to consider requiring more disclosure of tax-planning strategies by reporting firms.

Keywords: deferred tax assets, financial reporting, tax-planning strategies

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mulford, Charles W. and Comiskey, Eugene E., Deferred Tax Assets & the Disclosure of Tax Planning Strategies (July 9, 2011). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 31-46, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1957438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Booz Allen Hamilton Corp
Form 10-K, Annual Report to the SEC Posted: 2011-03-31
Liberty Western , Bancorp
Posted: 2010-12-31
Fasb
Income Taxes Posted: 2011
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Cenap Ilter
Exploring the Risks of Overstatements and Understatements in Financial Reporting Due to Inflation and Devaluation Gaps
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 13-22, 2012 · 18 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2012 · Downloads: 305
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,742
RANK
99,140
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies