Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simplifying Tax Laws as a Result of Budgeting and Accounting for Tax Incentives Differently

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 21, No. 4, pp. 707-724, 2006

18 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2011

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 7, 2007

Abstract

Most tax lawyers are not very fond of tax incentives. When talking about simplifying taxes, an initial approach might be to abolish tax incentives. However, in some cases this abolishment may cause the loss of a useful and effective instrument for government policy. A good example of a policy field that can benefit from certain tax incentives is cultural policy.

The advantages that some tax incentives offer do not mean that no tax incentives should be abolished. It is important that all tax incentives are evaluated on a regular basis to check whether they are (still) in line with policy goals and whether they are (still) the most efficient and most effective way of achieving these goals. Currently this is not always the case. To solve this problem the article proposes a change to the way in which tax incentives are budgeted and accounted for, which should give an incentive to evaluate tax incentives in a similar way as that in which direct subsidies are evaluated. The side effect of this change could be the abolishment of certain tax incentives and the simplification of tax laws.

Keywords: tax law, tax incentives, cultural policy

JEL Classification: K34, H21

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, Simplifying Tax Laws as a Result of Budgeting and Accounting for Tax Incentives Differently (January 7, 2007). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 21, No. 4, pp. 707-724, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1959838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J H  Christiaanse
Tax expenditures' Weekblad fiscaal recht , p. 69 - 75 Posted: 1977
M  Feldstein
A Contribution to the Theory of Tax Expenditures: the Case of Charitable Giving
the Brookings Institution , p. 99 - 122 Posted: 1980
 Haan , Ferry
Of de cijfers zijn fout, of er verdwijnt geld' de Volkskrant Posted: 2003-10-27
 Haan , Ferry
Film-industrie dicteert vragen voor Kamerleden' de Volkskrant 28 Posted: 2004-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
RANK
668,003
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Art and European VAT

By Sigrid Hemels

Tax Incentives for the Arts: The Case of the Netherlands

By Sigrid Hemels

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies