Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments on Professor Reuven S. Avi-Yonah and Amir C. Chenchinski: 'Corporate Tax Integration and the Debt/Equity Distinction: The Case for Dividend Deduction'

5 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2011

Deborah L. Paul

Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz

Date Written: September 20, 2011

Abstract

These comments challenge a recent paper by Professor Reuven S. Avi-Yonah and Mr. Amir C. Chenchinski entitled “Corporate Tax Integration and the Debt/Equity Distinction: The Case For Dividend Deduction.” In their paper, Professor Avi-Yonah and Mr. Chenchinski advance a system under which corporations would be taxed, as under current law, but corporations would also be entitled to a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders. Professor Avi-Yonah and Mr. Chenchinski identify several biases in the current system of taxing corporations and shareholders, but those biases might not be theoretically or practically problematic. Further, the design of the dividend deduction system advanced by Professor Avi-Yonah and Mr. Chenchinski would require a great deal more consideration. Within the framework that they themselves identify favoring corporate taxation on anti-deferral and regulatory grounds, the design of their system contains inconsistencies. Among other issues, Professor Avi-Yonah and Mr. Chenchinski do not suggest a workable solution for handling foreign and tax-exempt shareholders. While Professor Avi-Yonah and Mr. Chenchinski provide a helpful fresh look at one system for corporate integration, it is unclear whether there are answers to all the questions raised by their paper.

Keywords: Tax Law, Corporate Tax Reform, Dividend Deduction System, CBIT, Classical Tax System, Corporate Tax Integration, Reuven Avi-Yonah

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Paul, Deborah L., Comments on Professor Reuven S. Avi-Yonah and Amir C. Chenchinski: 'Corporate Tax Integration and the Debt/Equity Distinction: The Case for Dividend Deduction' (September 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1962817 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1962817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
281,840
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies