Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Accounting Information Under Greek and International Financial Reporting Standards: The Influence of Firm-Specific Characteristics

International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, No. 76, p. 6, 2011

18 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2011

Konstantinos Papadatos

University of Patras - Department of Business Administration

Athanasios Bellas

University of Patras

Date Written: November 22, 2011

Abstract

The aim of the present study is to compare the value relevance of accounting information under International Financial Reporting Accounting standards (IFRS) and Greek Accounting Standards (GAS) and to investigate whether the results are influenced from firm specific characteristics. Firstly, it is examined how the mandatory application of IFRS affected the relative and incremental value relevance of book value and net income in Greece. Secondly, it is investigated whether the size of the companies and their level of fixed assets affect the value relevance of accounting information. The results show that both firm size and fixed assets become significant factors, implying that the consequences of the mandatory transition to IFRS may not be the same for all firms.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Greek Accounting Standards (GAS), Greek firms, Mandatory adoption, Value relevance, Relative value relevance, Incremental value relevance

JEL Classification: G14, G15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Papadatos, Konstantinos and Bellas, Athanasios, The Value Relevance of Accounting Information Under Greek and International Financial Reporting Standards: The Influence of Firm-Specific Characteristics (November 22, 2011). International Research Journal of Finance and Economics, No. 76, p. 6, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1963369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
K Aljifri , H Khasharmeh
An Investigation into the Suitability of the International Accounting Standards to the United Arab Emirates Environment
International Business Review , volume 15 , p. 505 - 526 Posted: 2006
Crossref
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics -Issue , volume 76 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E Amir , T Harris , E Venutti
A comparison of the value-relevance of US versus non-US GAAP accounting measures using form 20-F reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms' accounting standards choices
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
480
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,444
RANK
136,211
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies