Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Have Pension Plans Changed after the Introduction of IFRS?

Pensions, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 244-255

Posted: 6 Dec 2011

Laurens Swinkels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR); Robeco Asset Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 1, 2011

Abstract

In this article, we provide empirical evidence of an important economic consequence after major changes in accounting standards. More precisely, we document that several companies have switched their pension scheme from a traditional defined benefit (db) scheme to a defined contribution (dc) scheme. In many cases, the annual reports of the pension funds and their sponsoring companies state that the introduction of IFRS is the main reason for switching from a db to dc scheme. We also analyse which company or pension fund characteristics might be related to the decision to switch. Even though many companies seem to consider switching to dc schemes, already 12 out of the 44 largest company pension schemes have converted their pension scheme. This is an important economic consequence attributed to the introduction of new accounting standards. Our results do not indicate a clear pattern of company characteristics that predict which companies are more likely to switch, although the relative size of the pension plan assets compared with the company's equity seems weakly positively related to switching.

Keywords: defined benefit, defined contribution, IFRS, pension funds

JEL Classification: G23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Swinkels, Laurens, Have Pension Plans Changed after the Introduction of IFRS? (December 1, 2011). Pensions, Vol. 16, No. 4, pp. 244-255, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1968797
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,771
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies