Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESO Accounting: New GAAP Standard

Paper presented at Tenth NIRMA International Conference on Management (NICOM-2007): Enhancing Enterprise Competitiveness Organized by Institute of Management, NIRMA University, Ahamdabad on January 5-7, 2007

Posted: 7 Dec 2011

Pankaj M. Madhani

Former Dean (Academics) & Professor

Date Written: December 7, 2011

Abstract

Accounting for employee stock options (ESO) has been one of the most controversial topics in accounting during the last decade. After the wave of recent corporate scandals, the controversy over employee stock options has intensified and arguments are being made in favor of expensing ESO in the actual income statement. FAS 123(R) is the new financial accounting standard introduced by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) that requires companies to deduct the amount of share-based (equity) payment granted to their employees on an annual basis. There are a number of different ways to compute the fair value of stock options. One of the most popular is the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which was developed to compute the value of publicly traded European stock options. More sophisticated models, such as lattice or binomial option pricing, are becoming a more common means of computing the fair value of employee stock options, as they handle more option plan provisions than the Black-Scholes model does, but are more complex. FAS 123(R) enhances transparency in financial reporting and improve corporate governance standard.

Keywords: Employee stock options, ESO, Accounting standard

Suggested Citation:

Madhani, Pankaj M., ESO Accounting: New GAAP Standard (December 7, 2011). Paper presented at Tenth NIRMA International Conference on Management (NICOM-2007): Enhancing Enterprise Competitiveness Organized by Institute of Management, NIRMA University, Ahamdabad on January 5-7, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1969369
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies