Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hungary: Does the Hungarian Local Trade Tax Fall within the Substantive Scope of a DTC?

TAX TREATY CASE LAW AROUND THE GLOBE – 2011, pp. 43-57, M. Lang, P. Pistone, J. Schuch, C. Staringer, A. Storck, L. de Boe, P. Essers, E. Kemmeren, F. Vanistendael, eds., Linde, 2011

10 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2011

Daniel Deak

Corvinus University of Budapest

Date Written: December 7, 2011

Abstract

In theory, there are clear-cut categories of turnover and profit taxes, respectively. In the practice of a number of countries, there is still a variety of biases from these simple categories. The Hungarian local trade tax is a good example for this. It is levied on an amount corresponding to a financial value that is less than sales receipts, but more than profit. Interestingly, it can be a problem to distinguish not only between turnover and income taxes, but also between income taxes and the taxes on the distribution of profit. In an international tax context, in the first case, the question can be raised whether a tax like the Hungarian local trade tax falls within the substantive scope of a double tax convention on income and on capital. In the second case, there can be a conflict of qualification between the business profit Article and the dividends Article of a double tax convention. In the following, I focus on the first question, discussing Hungarian tax cases, the subject of which was local trade tax. However, the problem of withholding taxes will also be touched on with a view to better understanding the distinction between indirect and direct taxes.

Keywords: Local trade tax, indirect and direct taxes, substantive scope of double tax treaties

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Deak, Daniel, Hungary: Does the Hungarian Local Trade Tax Fall within the Substantive Scope of a DTC? (December 7, 2011). TAX TREATY CASE LAW AROUND THE GLOBE – 2011, pp. 43-57, M. Lang, P. Pistone, J. Schuch, C. Staringer, A. Storck, L. de Boe, P. Essers, E. Kemmeren, F. Vanistendael, eds., Linde, 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1969554
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,268
RANK
785,592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies