Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Removing Tax Barriers from the Clearing and Settlement of Cross-Border Capital Market Transactions

Acta Juridica Hungarica, Vol. 52, No. 3, pp. 183-206, 2011

24 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2011

Daniel Deak

Corvinus University of Budapest

Date Written: December 7, 2011

Abstract

Where the institutions of the retention at source of taxes and the prevention of foreign financial intermediaries from assuming in the source country the liability to file tax information and arrange for the payment of tax in fair conditions comparable to their domestic counterparts are to be assessed in the light of the relevant Community law as communicated by the ECJ, it is crucial while concluding whether national legal practices of withholding taxation are consistent with Community law to apply the proportionality principle in specific cases. Where the application of the proportionality principle dictates us in a specific case respect of the effectiveness principle in enforcing rights both on the side of the tax authorities and taxpayers, an avenue may open up for progressively removing barriers from the clearing and settlement of securities transactions across the border. This paper is to discuss how the EC principles of effectiveness and proportionality are to be enforced by the European Court of Justice with regard to removing barriers from the free movement of services and capital upon withholding taxation.

Keywords: Effectiveness principle, proportionality principle, withholding tax, retention versus relief at source of, or from, taxes, paying and information agent

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Deak, Daniel, Removing Tax Barriers from the Clearing and Settlement of Cross-Border Capital Market Transactions (December 7, 2011). Acta Juridica Hungarica, Vol. 52, No. 3, pp. 183-206, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1969559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
ECR 2006, i-1025, para. 25. For the Council's arguments, see para
Oj L 264
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
RANK
663,174
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Courts & Adjudication eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies