Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Taxation Treaties: The Autonomous Interpretation Method in German and English Law

Intertax, Vol. 38, No. 13, pp. 136-152, 2010

36 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2011

Maren Heidemann

The London Centre for Commercial and Financial Law (LCF); Glasgow University School of Law; University of Westminster - School of Law; Institute of Advanced Legal Studies; Queen Mary University of London, Centre for Commercial Law Studies

Andreas Knebel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 21, 2009

Abstract

The authors explore the current state of the case law in Germany and England regarding the silent partnership in international taxation. The main concern is the interpretation and application of the Double Taxation Treaty as a bilateral convention: how will German courts and fiscal authorities react to the Memec case series in view of existing case law on DTTs with other countries? Will they respect the English view on the qualification proceeds from a German ''atypical'' silent partnership under the DTT or will they continue to apply an outdated and arguably ill founded reasoning? A recent German case involving the DTT with the US shows a move into the right direction.

The discussion wants to contribute to the evolution of a truly and much needed international legal doctrine within an ever-expanding European Union given the European tax law is still only rudimentary present in the acquis.

Suggested Citation:

Heidemann, Maren and Heidemann, Maren and Knebel, Andreas, Double Taxation Treaties: The Autonomous Interpretation Method in German and English Law (November 21, 2009). Intertax, Vol. 38, No. 13, pp. 136-152, 2010 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1969594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Memec plc v Inland Revenue Commissioners (IRC) Ch D [1996] STC 1336
Memec plc v Inland Revenue Commissioners (IRC) CA Posted: 1998
Memec plc v Inland Revenue Commissioners (IRC) CA Posted: 1998
In fact, a multilateral double taxation convention was proposed by the League of Nations in 1931: K van Raad Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,047
RANK
274,135
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies