Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Radical Tax Reform, Municipal Finance, and the Conservative Agenda

Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 56, p. 409, 2004

53 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2011 Last revised: 17 Dec 2011

Eric J. Gouvin

Western New England University School of Law

Date Written: December 14, 2011

Abstract

Proponents of a consumption tax system to replace the federal income tax typically couch their support for radical tax reform in the language of traditional tax policy goals. They claim that their reform plans promote the goals of simplicity, economic efficiency, stability, and equity. This Article examines how well the proposed tax reforms will achieve those goals in the context of their anticipated impact on state and local finance. The effects on state and local governments of a flattened-rate income tax, flat tax, or a broad federal consumption tax could be enormous and devastating. The Article finds that all of the reform proposals fall far short of achieving the traditional goals of tax policy in the context of state and local finance.

This Article develops an alternative explanation for why the radical tax proposals are currently under serious consideration. It suggests that the adverse impact that the federal-level reforms will have on state and local finance is not an incidental side effect, but rather is part of a strategy consistent with conservative thinking to reduce the size of government and to make taxation more difficult. The alternative explanation views the tax proposals as a way to advance the conservative political agenda on at least two fronts: (1) to remove tax expenditures as a policy tool and thereby reduce the opportunities for "social engineering" by the central government; and (2) to force a realignment of federalism issues in the taxation area by making the total tax burden more transparent and making local taxation more difficult.

Keywords: radical tax reform, municipal finance

Suggested Citation:

Gouvin, Eric Joseph, Radical Tax Reform, Municipal Finance, and the Conservative Agenda (December 14, 2011). Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 56, p. 409, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1972214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
E G See , Walter Olson
(praising the "undying dedication of the conservatives who continue exposing the truth" in making "'sixties indoctrinated lefties' ... realize ... [that tlhey had become victims of diabolical social engineering
Family Planning: Social Engineering Tempts the Right , volume 56 Posted: 1998-03
See Paul Craig Roberts
The function of a tax system is to raise revenues, not to engineer society
BuS. WK , volume 26 Posted: 1997-05-05
John Sen , ; Ashcroft , J Wall St
Tax Relieffor Those Most in Need Posted: 1996-11-13
Ronald Pasquariello , Tax Justice
The author goes on to draw the following lesson from scripture: The lesson of Genesis is this: To be human, to be made in the image of the Creator, is to be endowed with the ability to give shape to the world, to have the ability to participate fully in one's society, to have one's voice heard, to make a difference
SOCIAL AND MORAL AsPECTS OF AMERICAN TAX POLICY , volume 2 Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
RANK
724,701
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Western New England University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies