Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disposable Personal Goodwill, Frosty the Snowman, and Martin Ice Cream All Melt Away in the Bright Sunlight of Analysis

91 Nebraska Law Review 170 (2012)

U of Houston Law Center No. 2011-A-10

45 Pages Posted: 16 Dec 2011 Last revised: 20 Feb 2015

Bret Wells

University of Houston Law Center

Craig M Bergez

Porter Hedges LLP; University of Houston Law Center

Date Written: December 14, 2011

Abstract

The current rage in dispositional tax planning for closely-held C corporations is to bifurcate the sale transaction and to argue that the shareholder sold “personal goodwill” that is owned at the shareholder level. This planning is premised on the position that certain goodwill associated with the target C corporation can be, and is in fact, owned (for tax purposes) by one or more shareholders. If the “personal goodwill” is in fact owned by the selling shareholders and can be sold by the selling shareholders to the buyer, then the disposition of this “personal goodwill” is not subject to corporate-level taxation.

Although this planning has garnered much attention and is being marketed by many in the tax community as an innovative solution to avoid corporate-level taxes, the authors believe that this tax planning technique is unsustainable for several reasons set forth in the article. The article analyzes this technique in terms of existing transfer pricing regulations, the duty of consistency doctrine, existing case law involving goodwill (including the Tax Court’s decision in Martin Ice Cream).

Keywords: Martin Ice Cream, intangibles, marketing intangibles, goodwill, personal goodwill, residual goodwill

Suggested Citation:

Wells, Bret and Bergez, Craig M., Disposable Personal Goodwill, Frosty the Snowman, and Martin Ice Cream All Melt Away in the Bright Sunlight of Analysis (December 14, 2011). 91 Nebraska Law Review 170 (2012), U of Houston Law Center No. 2011-A-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1972444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,545
RANK
150,292
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Houston Law Center, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies