Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recovery of Basis in Non-Qualifying Stock Redemptions Under Sections 302 and 304

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 4, p. 85, 1984

54 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2011

Frederick Royal

Western New England University School of Law

Date Written: December 16, 2011

Abstract

This Article reviews the redemption provisions of both section 302 and section 304 of the Internal Revenue Code. It discusses the existing rules for basis recovery in dividend equivalent redemptions, and highlights the situations where the recovery of the basis of the stock redeemed becomes a problem. A number of cases, revenue rulings, and hypothetical illustrations where the basis recovery of redeemed stock has created or potentially could create a problem are examined. The Article also analyzes the tax policies which may influence the structure of a basis recovery procedure in dividend equivalent redemptions, and suggests the recovery method which should be adopted. Finally the legislative changes proposed by the American Bar Association's Section of Taxation are reviewed and discussed.

Keywords: stock redemptions, Internal Revenue Code, section 302, section 304, tax law

Suggested Citation:

Royal, Frederick, Recovery of Basis in Non-Qualifying Stock Redemptions Under Sections 302 and 304 (December 16, 2011). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 4, p. 85, 1984, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1972436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
This example provides an excellent illustration of a pro rata redemption. See also Bed Rock Petroleum Co
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , p. 302 - 304 Posted: 1933
Charles M Haft V , Commissioner
Crossref
B T A
431 (1930); cf. Rev. Rul. 70-291, 1970-1 C.B. 168 (stockholders surrendered to the company a pro rata portion of their stock; basis of the stock surrendered by each stockholder added to basis in stock retained)
In a long line of cases in which stockholders disproportionately surrendered some of their stock without consideration to a corporation to aid it in its financial difficulties, the Tax Court has steadfastly ruled that such a disproportionate surrender is an occasion for the recognition of a loss deduction measured by the basis of the stock surrendered, reduced by the increase in value of the stock which such shareholder retained. See, e.g., Smith v. Commissioner, 66 T.C. 622 (1976), rev'd sub nom
The judicial controversy concerning a stockholder's non-pro rata surrender of stock for no consideration is not directly applicable to a disproportionate nonqualifying stock redemption Posted: 1947
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,834
RANK
464,622
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Western New England University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies