Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Scandal Enforcement at the SEC: Salience and the Arc of the Option Backdating Investigations

58 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2011 Last revised: 7 Mar 2012

Stephen J. Choi

New York University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Adam C. Pritchard

University of Michigan Law School

Anat Carmy Wiechman

New York University (NYU)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 6, 2012

Abstract

We study the impact of scandal-driven media scrutiny on the SEC’s allocation of enforcement resources. We focus on the SEC’s investigations of option backdating in the wake of numerous media articles on the practice of backdating. We find that as the level of media scrutiny of option backdating increased, the SEC shifted its mix of investigations significantly toward backdating investigations and away from investigations involving other accounting issues. We test the hypothesis that SEC pursued more marginal investigations into backdating as the media frenzy surrounding the practice persisted at the expense of pursuing more egregious accounting issues. Our event study of stock market reactions to the initial disclosure of backdating investigations shows that those reactions declined over our sample period. We also find that later backdating investigations are less likely to target individuals and less likely to accompanied by a parallel criminal investigation. Looking at the consequences of the SEC’s backdating investigations, later investigations were more likely to be terminated or produce no monetary penalties. We find that the magnitude of the option backdating accounting errors diminished over time relative to other accounting errors that attracted SEC investigations.

Keywords: Option backdating, SEC enforcement

JEL Classification: K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Choi, Stephen J. and Pritchard, Adam C. and Wiechman, Anat Carmy, Scandal Enforcement at the SEC: Salience and the Arc of the Option Backdating Investigations (March 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1974976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1974976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
E Dash
Gilded Paychecks: Dating Games. The New York Times Posted: 2006-06-19
M Dierker , T Hemmer
On the Benefits of Backdating Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Efendi , R Files , B Ouyang , E P Swanson
Is Option Backdating Efficient Contracting or Compensation Fraud? Evidence from Executive Turnover, Working Paper Posted: 2010
C Forelle , J Bandler
The Perfect Payday -- Some CEOs reap millions by landing stock options when they are most valuable; Luck -- or something else?
Wall St. J , volume 1 Posted: 2006-03-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,781
RANK
104,096
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Executive Compensation

By Kevin J. Murphy

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

Are CEOS Really Paid Like Bureaucrats?

By Brian J. Hall and Jeffrey B. Liebman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies