Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Charities in the Netherlands

This paper is prepared for the 2012 conference of the European Association of Tax Law Professors (EATLP) which took place from 31 May- 2 June 2012 at the Erasmus School of Law of the Erasmus University Rotterdam.

Posted: 22 Dec 2011 Last revised: 23 Aug 2014

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: December 20, 2011

Abstract

In the Netherlands, special tax incentives apply for so called ‘public benefit pursuing entities’ (hereinafter PBEs). Currently, the Dutch tax authorities have registered 50.000 PBEs. The main criterion is not whether the activities or the entities are not for profit, but whether these activities or entities meet the public benefit criterion. The Dutch tax legislation on PBEs has changed considerably during the past 10 years. The latest changes were included in the Act on giving (Geefwet), which enters into force on 1 January 2012. In this paper, the definition of a PBE and the rules and the requirements for PBEs and the tax treatment of charities and donations to charities in the personal income tax, corporate income tax, gift and inheritance tax, real estate transfer tax, energy tax and value added tax are discussed.

Keywords: charities, public benefit, tax incentives, gift deduction

JEL Classification: K34, L31

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, Taxation of Charities in the Netherlands (December 20, 2011). This paper is prepared for the 2012 conference of the European Association of Tax Law Professors (EATLP) which took place from 31 May- 2 June 2012 at the Erasmus School of Law of the Erasmus University Rotterdam. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1974656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1974656
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies