Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. MNCs’ Offshore Operations: An Unbiased View

Tax Notes, January 2, 2012

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2001

7 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2011 Last revised: 10 Jan 2012

J. Richard (Dick) Harvey

Villanova University School of Law and Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: January 2, 2012

Abstract

Washington is abuzz with activity surrounding the taxation of US MNC’s international operations. This article attempts to provide an unbiased view of the international tax policy issues the US is facing. The author is a former senior government official and a former tax advisor to US MNCs. Those with strong views on one side or the other, will likely agree with some of the article’s conclusions, but disagree with others. Preliminary conclusions include:

1) US MNCs are clearly using creative international tax planning to shift substantial income out of the US. Although some US jobs have been lost as a result of this tax planning, companies have accomplished most of their tax objectives through aggressive transfer pricing and creative tax structures. To the extent US jobs have been lost, lower wages or other non-tax reasons have likely been the primary cause.

2) Given the inherently factual nature of the income shifting problem and the willingness of US MNCs to spend whatever it takes to defend their position, anyone who believes the IRS can effectively enforce the arm’s-length standard is an eternal optimist -- or delusional!

3) Excess income shifting may have hoist US MNCs on their own petard and be the primary reason they are pursuing a tax holiday or a territorial system. Without one of these legislative actions, US MNCs may be challenged by either their auditors or the SEC on their financial accounting assumption that accumulated low-tax foreign earnings are indefinitely reinvested.

4) Because of their ability to shift income, US MNCs have a competitive advantage over US domestic companies -- to the extent they are competitors. However, certain proposed solutions to the income shifting problem may put US MNCs at a competitive disadvantage with foreign MNCs.

As a result of these preliminary conclusions, the article concludes: It will be difficult for tax policy makers to accomplish the dual goals of creating a level playing field between (i) US MNCs and US domestic companies, and (ii) US MNCs and foreign MNCs. One option is to reduce the corporate tax rate to 15% or less, but this could be politically very difficult. Another option is to attempt to structure an anti-income-shifting rule that targets income shifted out of the US, rather than income located in a low-tax foreign jurisdiction. This second option would allow US MNCs to compete with foreign MNCs by continuing to shift income from high-tax foreign countries to low-tax foreign countries.

If neither proposal is possible, US tax policy makers will need to make a choice. Specifically, do they favor US MNCs at the expense of US domestic companies? Or, do they put US MNCs and US domestic companies on a relatively level playing field, but then potentially put US MNCs at a competitive disadvantage with foreign MNCs?

Keywords: International taxation, US MNCs, Subpart F, Worldwide Tax System, Territorial Tax System, Competitiveness, and Corporate Tax Reform

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, J. Richard, U.S. MNCs’ Offshore Operations: An Unbiased View (January 2, 2012). Tax Notes, January 2, 2012, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1975975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,882
RANK
162,563
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies