Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Post-Cuno Litigation Landscape

Case Western Reserve Law Review, Vol. 58, No. 4, p. 1157, 2008

27 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2011

Morgan Holcomb

Hamline University - School of Law

Nick Smith

University of Idaho - College of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2008

Abstract

In 1996, Northeastern University School of Law Professor Peter Enrich wrote a groundbreaking article, in which he argued that certain state tax incentives are unconstitutional as violations of the Commerce Clause. This article begins by describing the constitutional landscape into which Enrich cast his argument, and them turns describe the litigation that Enrich’s article has generated, including the much-watched case, Cuno v. DaimlerChrysler Corp., which held the promise of resolving this dormant Commerce Clause question, only to wither away on the vine of standing. Following the discussion of Cuno, this article will turn to an exploration of the litigation that proceeded in two state courts: Minnesota and North Carolina. The authors conclude by offering their perspective on the trends that appear from the state court litigation.

Keywords: Post-cuno, tax incentive, JOBZ, Job Opportunity Building Zone, Enrich, Commerce Clause, DaimlerChrysler Corp., Cuno

Suggested Citation:

Holcomb, Morgan and Smith, Nicholas A., The Post-Cuno Litigation Landscape (January 1, 2008). Case Western Reserve Law Review, Vol. 58, No. 4, p. 1157, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1976289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies