Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion on 'The Value Relevance of Comprehensive Income versus Net Income: A European Perspective' (Discusión sobre 'La Relevancia Valorativa Del Resultado Global Frente al Resultado Neto: Una Perspectiva Europea')

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad- REFC), Vol. 40, No. 150, pp. 339-350

Posted: 28 Dec 2011 Last revised: 24 Jan 2012

Maria T. Tascón

Universidad de León

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 28, 2011

Abstract

This discussion places the Giner and Pardo’s (2011) study in the line of research that develops similar experiments; it helps to fundament and reason the evidence obtained; it supports the model selection, proposing a complementary itinerary of references for the deduction or specification of the models proposed by the authors; and, finally, it points out some limitations, to provide an appropriate framework for the interpretation of the results, considering the wide number of previous studies on this subject and their heterogeneous results. Two aspects of value relevance are treated in depth: the relation between the objectives and the design of the research, which determines the interpretation of the results; and the role of the Ohlson Model in this type of studies on relevance.

Esta discusión encuadra el trabajo de Pardo y Giner (2011) en la corriente de investigación que desarrolla experimentos similares; contribuye a la fundamentación y explicación de la evidencia obtenida; apoya la selección del modelo, proponiendo un itinerario de referencias previas para la deducción o especificación complementario al propuesto por las autoras; y, finalmente, señala algunas limitaciones, con el fin de que los resultados se interpreten en el marco más adecuado, teniendo en cuenta el grupo numeroso de trabajos previos sobre la cuestión y sus heterogéneos resultados. Se desarrollan con mayor amplitud dos aspectos de la relevancia valorativa de los resultados en relación con el trabajo de Giner y Pardo (2010): La relación entre los objetivos y el diseño de la investigación, lo cual determina la interpretación de los resultados; y el papel que desempeña el modelo de Ohlson en este tipo de trabajos sobre relevancia.

Keywords: Comprehensive income, Value-relevance, International accounting, Ohlson Model

JEL Classification: M41, M16, G15

Suggested Citation:

Tascon, Maria Teresa, Discussion on 'The Value Relevance of Comprehensive Income versus Net Income: A European Perspective' (Discusión sobre 'La Relevancia Valorativa Del Resultado Global Frente al Resultado Neto: Una Perspectiva Europea') (December 28, 2011). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad- REFC), Vol. 40, No. 150, pp. 339-350, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1977424
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies