Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Judgment Matters: Assessing the Merits of Enhanced Communication and Collaboration

80 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2012

Paul-Emile Roy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 15, 2011

Abstract

Chartered Accountants (CAs) practice in a wide variety of fields including public accounting, industry, government, education, research, consulting, regulation and standard setting. In each of these areas, CAs are recognized for their expertise and for their ability to exercise sound “professional judgment” in a multitude of different contexts.

According to the academic research, the value of professional judgment is a function of both its importance and its quality, and each depends on the other. Together, these two attributes provide the foundation for this research initiative, which assesses whether there is a need for enhanced communication and collaboration by CAs on professional judgment matters. In other words, can an Internet-based professional judgment resource centre help to improve the quality of professional judgment? This is in the public interest, as well as the interests of policy developers and the business community. Clearly, it is also in the best interests of the profession.

This research initiative takes a seven-step approach, as follows: Step 1 – Review the definitions of professional judgment (see Chapter 1); Step 2 – Review the current research literature (see Chapter 2); Step 3 – Create a communications blog (see Chapter 3); Step 4 – Open a dialogue with CAs (see Chapter 4); Step 5 – Undertake an Internet-based survey (see Chapter 5); Step 6 – Review recent developments and other matters (see Chapter 6); Step 7 – Suggest practical ways to move forward (see Chapter 7).

In summary, the seven-step approach to this initiative had a single purpose. The goal was to answer the research question: “With regard to professional judgment matters, is there a need for enhanced communication and collaboration by Chartered Accountants?” Based on the results of the academic and professional literature review, the interest shown in the communications blog, and the collective views expressed by CAs in face-to-face meetings and by an online survey, the answer is clear. It’s time to collaborate! Accordingly, this research report sets out practical ways to move forward. It offers a number of suggestions regarding the nature and extent of the content that would be appropriate for an Internet-based resource centre. In addition, it suggests who would be appropriate to host this centre, both initially and ongoing.

Keywords: professional judgment, chartered accountants, communication, collaboration, expertise, decision making, Internet, online resource centre

Suggested Citation:

Roy, Paul-Emile Joseph, Professional Judgment Matters: Assessing the Merits of Enhanced Communication and Collaboration (December 15, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1978863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1978863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
Avoiding Decision-Making Traps
Framing-Risk or Opportunity?
Intuition-Recognizing Patterns 6. Reasoning by Analogy
Making Sense of Ambiguous Situations 8. The Wisdom of Crowds?
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,097
RANK
344,239
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

eBusiness & eCommerce eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies