Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simpler Debt-Equity Test

Greenaway & Marion, A Simpler Debt-Equity Test, 66 TAX LAW. 73 (2013)

40 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2012 Last revised: 12 Mar 2013

Thomas Greenaway

KPMG International, LLP - Boston, MA Office

Michelle L. Marion

KPMG LLP

Date Written: April 6, 2012

Abstract

It is usually a straightforward tax question: is an advance of capital to a business debt or equity? But in some cases the question gets harder to answer, mostly because of the tangled multi-factor test we use. Long ago most tax practitioners gave up trying to clean up the process of answering hard debt-equity questions. But recent developments show the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), practitioners, and courts moving towards a simpler way to decide these cases in the form of a single question: Did the parties to the transaction reasonably expect the funds would be repaid in full? The article discusses the development of recent debt-equity caselaw on structured financing arrangements including Pritired, Castle Harbour, Hewlett-Packard, Schering-Plough, PepsiCo, and the Scottish Power cases.

Keywords: tax, debt-equity, leverage, debt, equity, corporate finance

JEL Classification: H25, G32, K34

Suggested Citation:

Greenaway, Thomas and Marion, Michelle L., A Simpler Debt-Equity Test (April 6, 2012). Greenaway & Marion, A Simpler Debt-Equity Test, 66 TAX LAW. 73 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1978476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1978476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
For the same reason, pepsiCo was subject to minimal tax under subpart F with respect to the income of the aa issuers
Pepsico
t.C.m. (ria) ¶ 2012-269 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Id
Id
, volume 1867
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,143
RANK
131,938
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies