Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sleeping with the Enemy? The IRS' Advanced Notice of Rule-Making Regarding Capitalization

University of Baltimore Law Review, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2002

30 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2012

Cheyanna Jaffke

Western State University, College of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2003

Abstract

Taxpayers and corporations alike have a difficult time hitting the moving target of what is currently deductible versus what must be capitalized under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) section 263. The Treasury Regulations currently provide that in order for an expense to be currently deductible, the expenditure cannot create or enhance an asset where the useful life substantially exceeds the tax year. The courts have attempted to interpret these sections in INDOPCO, Inc. v. Commissioner and U.S. Freightways v. Commissioner; however, these attempts have only left more questions and confusion.

In an attempt to provide some clarification, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed additional Treasury Regulations that create a “one-year rule,” a “de minimis rule,” and a “regular and recurring rule.” However, the IRS arguably does not have the authority to promulgate such rules; and even if it did, should leave such changes to Congress.

This article provides an overview of the cash method of accounting and the accrual method of accounting as well as the tests and requirements individuals and businesses must follow when taking deductions under the IRC and Regulations. Next, this article provides a synopsis of the INDOPCO, Inc. and U.S. Freightways cases and the proposed Treasury Regulations. This article then argues that the IRS has not been legislatively-empowered to promulgate the proposed Treasury Regulations. Further, the proposed Treasury Regulations are improper interpretive regulations under 26 U.S.C. section 7805 because they create a new law that has the effect of conflicting with Congress’s intent in passing IRC sections 162 and 263. The regular and recurring rule would negate the need to proceed to IRC section 263 and would contradict Congress’s intent to make capitalization the norm, causing taxpayers to pre-pay regular and recurring expenses that would otherwise be required to be capitalized. This article then argues that Congress should be the entity to pass such rules because the IRS is creating overly taxpayer-friendly regulations that will be granted deference by the courts under Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council and will force Congress to make an ultimate determination as to whether to enact the proposed regulations.

Finally, this article pieces together the interplay of the proposed Treasury Regulations and IRC sections 162, 263, and 461 to determine the impact on deductions.

Keywords: Current deduction, Capitalization, Internal Revenue Code section 263, INDOPCO, U.S. Freightways, One-year rule, de minimis rule, regular and recurring rule, 26 U.S.C. section 7805, 162, 163, 263, Chevron U.S.A.

Suggested Citation:

Jaffke, Cheyanna, Sleeping with the Enemy? The IRS' Advanced Notice of Rule-Making Regarding Capitalization (January 1, 2003). University of Baltimore Law Review, Vol. 32, No. 1, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1978817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
John F Coverdale
Court Review Of Tax Regulations And Revenue Rulings In The Chevron Era, 64 GEO
WASH. L. REV , volume 35 Posted: 1995
Catherine Barre , Keith Lawson
Investment Institute Suggests Changes To Capitalization Rules For Intangible Assets , p. 63 - 78 Posted: 2002
R Mark , Baran
Bankers Association Offers Suggestions For Rules On Capitalizing Costs Of Intangibles , p. 66 - 92 Posted: 2002
Pamela J Pecarich
AICPA Suggests Changes To Proposed Regs On Capitalizing Expenditures , p. 96 - 114 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
741,983
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies