Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of an IRS Undisclosed Offshore Account IDR

Tax Notes, November 2011

18 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2012

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: November 21, 2011

Abstract

The IRS has been aggressively attempting to uncover tax avoidance schemes involving the use of domestic or offshore financial accounts and arrangements. Most individuals wrongly believe that prior tax indiscretions can somehow be routinely resolved in a purely civil manner, without a criminal investigation or prosecution. However, within the past few years at least 40 U.S. taxpayers and another 20 advisers (bankers, lawyers, consultants, and so on) have been criminally indicted for activities associated with U.S. persons holding undeclared interests in foreign financial accounts. Untold others are targets or subjects of ongoing federal criminal investigations.

If the initial taxpayer contact regarding an undisclosed potential interest in a foreign financial account is from the IRS, a purely civil tax resolution is no longer certain, and the likelihood of substantial civil penalties is significant. If the initial contact is from the DOJ, a purely civil tax resolution is doubtful and perhaps unlikely. Waiting is not a viable option for taxpayers who have an undisclosed interest in a foreign financial account. They should immediately pursue a course of compliance designed to avoid criminal prosecution and substantial civil penalties. Actions designed to avoid detection by the government will surely increase the potential for criminal prosecution.

Keywords: FBAR, Foreign Bank Account Report, Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, OVDI, OVDP, IRS, offshore voluntary disclosure initiative, offshore voluntary disclosure program, tax, tax fraud, Form TD F 90-22.1

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Evaluation of an IRS Undisclosed Offshore Account IDR (November 21, 2011). Tax Notes, November 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1978601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
449,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies