Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Death, Taxes, and Now Divorce: The Unavoidable Dyad Expanded to a Trilogy: ERISA's Social Policy Harms Women's Rights

University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 35, 2000-2001

57 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2012

Cheyanna Jaffke

Western State University, College of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2000

Abstract

In enacting a preemption clause in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), followed by the United States Supreme Court’s interpretation that the preemption clause preempts states’ community property laws in Boggs v. Boggs, an enigma was created whereby married women can recover their husbands’ retirement benefits by way of divorce, but have limited rights upon either spouse’s death. This article begins by outlining ERISA, including defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans.

Next, this article focuses on the history of ERISA, including the Studebaker incident and Congress’s intent to avoid such a situation in the future by enacting provisions into ERISA to control the management and alienation of ERISA plans. This article then discusses the Retirement Equity Act (REA) amendments to ERISA and their requirements and ownership rights for Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuities (QJSA) and Qualified Preretirement Survivor Annuities (QPSA) in addition to Qualified Domestic Relations Orders (QDROs). This article then discusses the community property system, utilized by nine states, and common law property system, including the title and equitable distribution systems.

This article also discusses the negative effects of preemption and the imposition of federal policy choices on marriage and women, including the disparate impact of decisions such as Boggs, the devaluation of women’s contributions to their families, the violation of the theory that marriage is an economic partnership, the universal implementation of the title system of ownership upon the husband’s death and the forced use of elective share statutes, and the encouragement of divorce and discouragement of marriage.

The author suggests several ways to solve the current enigma created by Boggs: courts can apply a narrow interpretation of Boggs, only applying the holding where a predeceasing non-participant spouse dies prior to retirement of the participant; or ERISA can be amended to change the preemption provision or allow the QDRO provision to include probate orders. As to the second suggestion, the author suggests amendments to the QDRO provisions that change the definition of a QDRO, change the definition of an alternate payee, and change Internal Revenue Code section 402(e)(1)(A). The author then analyzes how the proposed amendment would work, the effect of the amendment, and potential problems.

Keywords: Employee Retirement Income Security Act, ERISA, preemption clause, Boggs, married women, wife, wives, retirement benefits, defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, Studebaker incident, alienation, Retirement Equity Act, REA, Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuities, QJSA, QDRO, QPSA

Suggested Citation:

Jaffke, Cheyanna, Death, Taxes, and Now Divorce: The Unavoidable Dyad Expanded to a Trilogy: ERISA's Social Policy Harms Women's Rights (January 1, 2000). University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 35, 2000-2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1979204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,566
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies