Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
There is No Hidden Reinvestment Assumption in Discounting Formula and IRR: Logical and Mathematical Arguments

21 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2012 Last revised: 22 Oct 2012

Sergei Vasilievich Cheremushkin

Independent

Date Written: January 10, 2012

Abstract

There is an ongoing dispute about the assumption of reinvesting intermediate cash flows at cost of capital in calculation of NPV and at IRR in calculation of implied yield to maturity. The lack of conclusive evidence lends support to confusion around the issue. This paper provides logical and mathematical proofs that there is no implicit reinvestment assumption embedded in present value formula and in IRR formula. We prove this conclusion by rewriting NPV and IRR equations in expanded form in order to discriminate between the discount rate for the initially evaluated cash flow occurring at time t and the discount rate for reinvested intermediate cash flows occurring after time t. In so doing we pay attention not only to reinvestment rate for intermediate cash flows, but also emphasize and justify that discount rate for intermediate cash flows over life of the project is not the same as discount rate of the project’s expected cash flows. The revised formulas do not prohibit reinvestment of intermediate cash flows; however the discounting rate for reinvested intermediate cash flows should be the same as the reinvestment rate. This means that reinvestment rate can be arbitrary and not necessarily the cost of capital in the case of NPV. In much the same way, in the case of IRR the reinvestment rate for intermediate cash flows is not necessarily be equal to IRR. The conclusion is that reinvestment assumption is a wrong belief. We also show that MNPV and MIRR formulas contain erroneous restrictive assumptions about the discount rate for interim cash flows and can be highly misleading measures. We provide corrected formulas for MNPV and MIRR and demonstrate that MNPV and MIRR strongly depend on the life of the project, which makes estimates unstable and unreliable. MNPV and MIRR admix effects of expected reinvestment of interim cash flows to the outcomes of initial investment being evaluated. In fact the initial investment and reinvestments of interim cash flows, if they actually have to take place, are different projects and should be measured separately.

Keywords: valuation, cash flow, WACC, cost of equity, financial leverage, cost of levered equity, cost of unlevered equity, performance measurement

JEL Classification: M21, M40, M46, M41, G12, G31, J33

Suggested Citation:

Cheremushkin, Sergei Vasilievich, There is No Hidden Reinvestment Assumption in Discounting Formula and IRR: Logical and Mathematical Arguments (January 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1982828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1982828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Armen A Alchian
The Rate of Interest, Fisher's Rate of Return over Costs and Keynes' Internal Rate of Return
The American Economic Review , volume 45 , p. 938 - 943 Posted: 1955
Tom Arnold , Terry Nixon , H Baker , Phillip Kent , English
Capital Budgeting Valuation: Financial Analysis for Today's Investment Projects , p. 79 - 94 Posted: 2011
Robert G Beaves
Net Present Value and Rate of Return: Implicit and Explicit Reinvestment Assumptions
The Engineering Economist , volume 33 , p. 275 - 302 Posted: 1988
Crossref
C R Beidleman
Discounted Cash Flow Reinvestment Rate Assumptions
The Engineering Economist , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 127 - 139 Posted: 1984
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Kannapiran Arjunan , Karthi Kannapiran
The Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption
Cost‐benefit Analysis and the Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: Some New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption, Economic Papers, 36 ( 3), 351– 63, 2017, · 27 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 21 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 908
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Narayanaswamy Murugesan
Reinvestment Assumptions Inherent in DCF Methodologies: The Concept of Reinvestment IRR
21 Pages · Posted: 20 Jun 2013 · Downloads: 378
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
Modified IRR (MIRR) Is a Spurious Criterion and Should Not Be Used in Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) and Investment Analysis
Forthcoming in the Journal of Economic and Finance Education · 29 Pages · Posted: 3 Apr 2017 · Last revised: 19 Apr 2025 · Downloads: 359
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran C. Arjunan
Non-monotonic NPV Function Leads to Spurious NPVs and Multiple IRR Problems: A New Method that Resolves these Problems
Economic Papers: A journal of applied economics and policy , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 56 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,154
RANK
43,606
6 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Weighted Internal Rate of Return (Wirr) and Expanded Benefit-Cost Ratio (Eb/Cr)

By Ignacio Velez-pareja

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies