Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowledge Management for the Converged IASB and FASB Standards

The IUP Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. IX, No. 2, pp. 56-71, April 2011

Posted: 11 Jan 2012

Zane L. Swanson

University of Central Oklahoma

Ron Freeze

Emporia State University

Date Written: January 10, 2012

Abstract

This paper conducts a cost/benefit analysis by applying a knowledge management system that incorporates accounting’s conceptual framework, codification initiative and financial statement presentation proposal into a complete ontology. The need for a systematic organization is heightened in the convergence of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) standards which increases the costs (e.g., from complexity and volume) to the accounting body of knowledge. A knowledge management framework can help accounting professionals/academics address accounting issues in such a manner where the benefits exceed the costs in an organized system.

Keywords: generally accepted accounting principles, knowledge management, ontology, XBRL

Suggested Citation:

Swanson, Zane L. and Freeze, Ron, Knowledge Management for the Converged IASB and FASB Standards (January 10, 2012). The IUP Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. IX, No. 2, pp. 56-71, April 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1982929
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies