Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence at the Crossroads – Regulation and Incentives

European Business Organization Law Review (EBOR), Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 89-101, March 2012, DOI: 10.1017/S1566752912000043

Max Planck Private Law Research Paper No. 12/1

14 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2012 Last revised: 9 May 2015

Walter Doralt

University of Graz (Austria)

Andreas Martin Fleckner

Humboldt University of Berlin - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Klaus J. Hopt

Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Christoph Kumpan

Bucerius Law School

Felix Steffek

University of Cambridge - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Reinhard Zimmermann

Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Alexander Hellgardt

University of Augsburg - Faculty of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Susanne Augenhofer

University of Innsbruck

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Trust in the independence of auditors is essential for the functioning of markets. If auditors are not independent or not believed to be independent, transaction costs will rise. In November 2011, the European Commission proposed radical reforms for statutory audits in Europe, fueling heated political and academic debates. We welcome the Commission’s initiative and present cornerstones of a new regulatory framework. With these and related measures, trust in the independence of auditors will be restored and strengthened.

Note: This article is published in this Research Paper Series with the permission of the rights owner, T.M.C. Asser Press.

Keywords: audit, independence, rotation, Big Four, market concentration, internationalization, legal harmonization, standardization

JEL Classification: D43, G15, G18, G38, K22, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Doralt, Walter and Fleckner, Andreas Martin and Hopt, Klaus J. and Kumpan, Christoph and Steffek, Felix and Zimmermann, Reinhard and Hellgardt, Alexander and Hellgardt, Alexander and Augenhofer, Susanne, Auditor Independence at the Crossroads – Regulation and Incentives. European Business Organization Law Review (EBOR), Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 89-101, March 2012, DOI: 10.1017/S1566752912000043, Max Planck Private Law Research Paper No. 12/1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1983204
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,927
RANK
28,143
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies