Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Keeping Pace with the Times: Exploring the Meaning of Limited Partner for Purposes of the Internal Revenue Code

Kansas Law Review, Vol. 60, p. 89, 2011

50 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2012

Kristin Balding Gutting

Charleston School of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2011

Abstract

This article explores the use of the term “limited partner” within the passive loss rules of Internal Revenue Code (Code) section 469 and the corresponding Treasury Regulations in light of the always changing business environment. The passive loss rules of Code section 469 turn on whether a taxpayer materially participated in the loss generating activity. The preferential nature of several Code provisions turns on whether a person is a limited partner, the majority of these references being codified within the Code prior to the creation of many new types of entities, including the Limited Liability Company (LLC), the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), and the Limited Liability Limited Partnership (LLLP) (collectively referred to as a Limited Liability Entities). The term was placed in to the Code when the only entities taxed as partnerships were general partnerships and limited partnerships. At such time, a limited partner was essentially prohibited from participating if the limited partner wanted to maintain his limited liability status. However, this article asserts that in today’s business environment, a trend is developing where the distinctions between an individual’s ability to participate in Limited Liability Entities and maintain limited liability has become blurred. Under the special rule of Code section 469(h)(2), if a taxpayer is a limited partner, deducting certain losses is subject to more stringent rules. For almost twenty years, the Internal Revenue Service (the Service) has been asserting in audits that an interest in Limited Liability Entities should be treated as a limited partner for applying Code section 469. In late 2009, however, the United States Tax Court held that an LLC member and an LLP partner were not limited partners for purposes of the passive loss rules. Shortly thereafter, the United States Court of Federal Claims reaffirmed that for purposes of the passive losses rules LLC members were not limited partners. The Court of Federal Claims, nevertheless, did not address the application of Code section 469(h)(2) to an LLP. Accordingly, it is still unclear whether under Code section 469(h)(2) a partner in an LLP and/or an LLLP is considered a limited partner. Essentially, this has led to the belief by scholars and practitioners that the issue is resolved concerning an LLC. Yet, in December 2010, the Service commented that it would issue guidance in this area. Furthermore, both the United States Tax Court and the United States Court of Federal Claims hinted that the Service could amend the Treasury Regulations to explicitly include Limited Liability Entities as being subject to the more stringent rule of Code section 469(h)(2). This article proposes that the Service should not amend the regulation, but, instead Congress should revoke Code section 469(h)(2), as in today’s business world there has been a change of circumstances, and the Code must advance to keep pace with the times.

Keywords: tax, llc, limited partner, partnership, partner, passive losses, section 469, Garnett, Thompson, passive activity

JEL Classification: K19, K20, K22, K29, K34, M49

Suggested Citation:

Gutting, Kristin Balding, Keeping Pace with the Times: Exploring the Meaning of Limited Partner for Purposes of the Internal Revenue Code (August 1, 2011). Kansas Law Review, Vol. 60, p. 89, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1984754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Id
Crossref
A limited partner does not have the right or the power as a limited partner to act for or bind the limited partnership
Unif , Nat &apos; Comm&apos;n , Conference , Comm
Posted: 2011-08-19
J William Callison &amp; , Maureen A Sullivan , Partnership Law , Practice
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,980
RANK
375,525
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies