Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The APA's Reasoned-Explanation Rule and IRS Deficiency Notices

Tax Notes, p. 331, 2012

15 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2012 Last revised: 25 Jan 2012

Patrick J. Smith

Ivins, Phillips & Barker

Date Written: January 16, 2012

Abstract

The D.C. Circuit’s confirmation in Cohen that the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) applies to the IRS raises the question of what that application will mean. The APA’s arbitrary and capricious standard for judicial review of agency action incorporates a requirement that agencies provide contemporaneous reasoned explanations for their actions, which clearly applies to IRS regulations. This report contends that the APA’s reasoned explanation requirement also applies to IRS deficiency notices. Pre- APA case law held that IRS deficiency notices need not contain any explanation, but this conclusion has not been reexamined in light of the act’s arbitrary and capricious standard. The pre-APA conclusion that IRS deficiency notices need no explanation cannot stand when reconsidered in light of the APA’s reasoned explanation requirement.

Keywords: Administrative Procedure Act, arbitrary and capricious standard, deficiency notices, IRS, State Farm

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Patrick J., The APA's Reasoned-Explanation Rule and IRS Deficiency Notices (January 16, 2012). Tax Notes, p. 331, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1987545
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
State Farm, 463 U.S. at 50 (''The courts may not accept appellate counsel's post hoc rationalizations for agency action
Section 7522(b)(1)
Marcello V See , Bonds
, volume 302 , p. 308 - 310 Posted: 1955
Crossref
COMMENTARY / SPECIAL REPORT
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,762
RANK
327,319
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies