Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increased Tax Liability Awards after Eshelman: A Call for Expanded Acceptance Beyond the Realm of Anti-Discrimination Statutes

New York Law School Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 2, December 2011

37 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2012

Eirik J. Cheverud

Independent

Date Written: December 2, 2011

Abstract

When an employee suffers an unlawful adverse employment decision, her remedy generally lies in a backpay award. These awards are normally provided in one lump sum, which in turn is taxed as income in the year received. Often, the result is this: the employee would have paid less in taxes if no illegal action had occurred. This law review note details the historical background of this problem (an interesting romp of U.S. tax-policy history), and discusses how courts have begun to address it using increased tax liability awards (ITLAs) -- an additional monetary award increasing a plaintiff's backpay award, intended to offset the negative tax consequences of the backpay award's lump-sum distribution. It next weighs arguments made by courts that have rejected ITLAs, and demonstrates how the reasoning in Eshelman v. Agere Systems, a recent Third Circuit case announcing the availability of ITLAs under anti-discrimination statutes, effectively counters those courts' concerns. The note goes further to suggest that courts could, and should, provide ITLAs under most employment statutes (as opposed to being limited to the anti-discrimination context, which thus far has been the only area where courts, and even most scholars, have addressed ITLA applicability), including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), and the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA).

Keywords: increased tax liability awards, negative tax consequences, employment law, employment discrimination law, employee benefits, damages, equitable remedies, tax policy

JEL Classification: A10, H20, K00, K31, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cheverud, Eirik J., Increased Tax Liability Awards after Eshelman: A Call for Expanded Acceptance Beyond the Realm of Anti-Discrimination Statutes (December 2, 2011). New York Law School Law Review, Vol. 57, No. 2, December 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1988611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
N L R
, volume 567 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Id
at 568 (citations omitted) (quoting Trustees of Boston Univ Posted: 1976
Id
President Obama recently wrote a new memorandum renewing the call for the inclusion of ITLAs in cases brought by the General Counsel's office. See Memorandum from Lafe E. Solomon to All Regional Directors, Officers-in-Charge, and Resident Officers, Changes in the Methods Used to Calculate Backpay in Light of Kentucky River Medical Center and to Better Effectuate the Remedial Purposes of the Act Posted: 2011-03-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
337,844
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies