Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Three Years or Six to Audit? Substance and Procedure in Intermountain

41 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2012

Eric Bennett Rasmusen

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Business Economics & Public Policy

Date Written: September 23, 2011

Abstract

In the 2011 Intermountain case the IRS wished to interpret “omits from gross income” to mean “reports but understates gross income” and extend the period for audit of understated capital gains from three years to six. It took that position without notice-and-comment and in the context of the hot pursuit of a particular tax shelter. After losing in tax court special review, with all 13 Tax Court judges concurring, the IRS made the motions of going through notice-and-comment to get Chevron deference on appeal. Neither the IRS nor anybody else seems to have paid much attention to why Congress might choose one statute of limitations over another. Rather than looking at costs and benefits, the lawyers have been looking at the meaning of words and at how much deference is owed to unargued assertions. There exist obvious reasons why Congress would choose a shorter audit time for understatements than for omissions, however, reasons which are crucial to the interpretation of the statute and whose neglect bears heavily on the question of whether the IRS has devoted more resources to study, used more expertise, listened more to outside comment, and been equally as impartial as the courts. The case provides good reason for not providing even Chevron’s level of deference to Treasury interpretations of statutes, much less to expand Chevron deference to interpretation adopted to win particular lawsuits.

Keywords: Tax, statute of limitations, Chevron Doctrine

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Rasmusen, Eric Bennett, Three Years or Six to Audit? Substance and Procedure in Intermountain (September 23, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1989064 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1989064
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
First Chicago , Nbd Corp ; Th Cir , J Posner
1998) aff'g 96 T.C. 421 (1991) citations omitted. The en banc decision he mentions is Horton
Commissioner, 135 F.3d , volume 457 , p. 458 - 460
T C Estate Of Mclendon V. Commissioner , Memo
Overbeck & Assocs. v. United States, 445 F.2d 1142 , p. 1146 - 1193 Posted: 1971
Crossref
Dobson V Commissioner
, volume 48 Posted: 1943
Crossref
Colony Inc. v. Commissioner, 357 U.S , volume 28 Posted: 1958
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,820
RANK
552,835
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies