Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Transactions Tax versus (?) the Financial Activities Tax

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-04

35 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2012 Last revised: 6 Mar 2012

Daniel Shaviro

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2012

Abstract

In both Europe and the United States, there has been much recent debate regarding whether, in response to the 2008 financial crisis, one should enact a financial transactions tax (FTT) or a financial activities tax (FAT) – commonly viewed as mutually exclusive alternatives. This article evaluates these two alternative instruments, focusing on recent proposals by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. It concludes that the case for enacting an FAT is considerably stronger than that for an FTT, mainly because the FAT focuses on a broad “net” measure, rather than a narrow “gross” measure, of financial sector activity.

The article further concludes that a rationale for the FTT not emphasized by the European Commission – its addressing wasteful over-investment in the activity of seeking trading gains at the expense of other traders – could conceivably support its enactment, though it is uncertain that the social benefits would exceed the costs. The issues raised by this alternative rationale are independent of whether or not an FAT has been enacted. Finally, the desirability of enacting an FTT may be affected by broader political economy constraints on revenue-raising and on the pursuit of greater tax progressivity by alternative (including clearly superior) means.

Keywords: financial sector taxation, financial transactions tax, financial activities tax

JEL Classification: G20, H20, H21, H23, H25

Suggested Citation:

Shaviro, Daniel, The Financial Transactions Tax versus (?) the Financial Activities Tax (March 1, 2012). NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1989163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1989163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Dean Baker
The Benefits of a Financial Transactions Tax Posted: 2008
Joseph Bankman , David Weisbach
The Superiority of an Ideal Consumption Tax Over an Ideal Income Tax
U Chicago Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 251 Pages: 82 Posted: 27 Jul 2005
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Josh Boak
Wall St. Trading Could Generate Taxes
Politico Posted: 2011-10-04
David F Bradford
Treatment of Financial Services Under Income and Consumption Taxes , p. 437 - 464 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,722
RANK
38,851
5 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Efficiency and Equity Effects of Taxing the Financial Sector: Lessons from a CGE Model for Belgium

By Omar Chisari, Antonio Estache, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies