Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonising Basel III and the Dodd Frank Act Through International Accounting Standards – Reasons Why International Accounting Standards Should Serve as 'Thermostats'

Kindle Direct Publishing April 2014

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2012 Last revised: 29 Apr 2014

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: January 23, 2012

Abstract

Why should differences between regulatory and accounting policies be mitigated? Because mitigating such differences could facilitate convergence – as well as financial stability.

The paper “Fair Value Accounting and Procyclicality: Mitigating Regulatory and Accounting Policy Differences through Regulatory Structure Reforms and Enforced Self Regulation” illustrates how the implementation of accounting standards and policies, in certain instances, have contrasted with Basel Committee initiatives aimed at mitigating procyclicality and facilitating forward looking provisioning. The paper also highlights how and why differences between regulatory and accounting policies could (and should) be mitigated.

This paper focuses on how recent regulatory reforms – with particular reference to the Dodd Frank Act, impact fair value measurements. Other potential implications for accounting measurements and valuation, will also be considered. Given the tendencies for discrepancies to arise between regulatory and accounting policies, and owing to discrepancies between Basel III and the Dodd Frank Act, would a more imposing and commanding role for international standards not serve as a powerful weapon in harmonizing Basel III and Dodd Frank – whilst mitigating regulatory and accounting policy differences?

Keywords: financial stability, OTC derivatives markets, counterparty risks, disclosure, information asymmetry, transparency, living wills, Volcker Rule, Basel III, Basel II, pro cyclicality, international auditing standards, Dodd Frank Act, fair values

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Harmonising Basel III and the Dodd Frank Act Through International Accounting Standards – Reasons Why International Accounting Standards Should Serve as 'Thermostats' (January 23, 2012). Kindle Direct Publishing April 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1990529 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1990529
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Whereby it is asserted that -both the Volcker Rule and Living Will Provisions could lead to institutions selling parts of their businesses in order to comply with regulations
See R Lall
Why Basel II Failed and Why Any Basel III is doomed‖ Global Economic Governance Programme GEG Working Paper Posted: 2009-10-52
Brief See
Deutsche Bank CFO Says Concerned New Basel Rules Allow Shadow Banking System Whilst Constraining Bank
M See , Ojo
Financial Stability, New Macro Prudential Arrangements and Shadow Banking: Regulatory Arbitrage and Stringent Basel III Regulations‖
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
259
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
269,867
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies