Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Thickness of a Prison Wall - When Does Tax Avoidance Become a Criminal Offence?

New Zealand Business Law Quarterly, Vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 441-466, December 2011

27 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2012

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 15, 2011

Abstract

Tax avoidance and tax evasion cause major problems to the assessment and collection of tax and invariably attack the integrity of any tax system.

Denis Healey, former UK Chancellor of the Exchequer once said “The difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion is the thickness of a prison wall.” His quote graphically illustrates that tax avoiders, generally, remain on the outside of the prison wall, while some tax evaders are detained inside. This quote from Denis Healey implies that there is a significant difference between the technical legal positions of tax evasion and tax avoidance, in the sense that one is a criminal action and the other is not. But it also implies that tax avoidance is rather close, perhaps ten centimetres away, from tax evasion.

The writer’s hypothesis is that while most taxation experts believe it is abundantly clear what constitutes tax evasion rather than tax avoidance, they are oversimplifying the position. The difference between the two legal concepts may be obvious in the vast majority of circumstances. But in fact, consistent with the implication from Healey's quote, on occasions tax avoidance and tax evasion may be so closely interrelated so as to have common features. If this fusion occurs a frightening outcome for taxpayers, and also potentially tax advisers, may ensue.

The question this article seeks to answer is: when, if ever, does participation in a tax avoidance scheme become a criminal offence? When do tax avoidance schemes not only cross the line of acceptable tax planning and become void for tax purposes, but go further and cross the line of legality? When might the tax administrators, in battling an egregious tax avoidance dispute, send in the heavy artillery of criminal prosecution?

The conclusion reached is that, rather surprisingly, there are many common features shared by tax avoidance schemes and behaviour that may offend against a criminal provision. Although any case would be highly fact specific, behaviour by a taxpayer involving deceit may have the requisite mental element to constitute a crime.

Taxpayers and their advisers need to be aware of the rules and case law in this area in order to ensure their compliance. In contrast awareness of the possibility of criminal charges may be an important addition to the arsenal of the tax administrator.

Keywords: tax avoidance, criminal tax avoidance, criminal tax prosecution, tax fraud, New Zealand tax avoidance, New Zealand tax fraud

JEL Classification: K14, K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, The Thickness of a Prison Wall - When Does Tax Avoidance Become a Criminal Offence? (December 15, 2011). New Zealand Business Law Quarterly, Vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 441-466, December 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1992652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R V Connelly &amp; Ors
Posted: 2004
Crossref
R V Connelly &amp; Ors
, volume 21 Posted: 0200
Crossref
Ors V The Reid , Queen
Posted: 2007
Crossref
Ibid at 13. the notice of proposed adjustment is a document. The question is then: would the other components of the offence apply?
Load more
1 Citations
Samuel Tanjeh Mukah , Michael Forzeh Fossung
Tax Evasion in Cameroon: Causes and Remedies
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting Vol.10, No.14, 2019 · 12 Pages · Posted: 9 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 560
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,014
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,633
RANK
24,969
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies