Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Eliminating Operating Leases: The Effect on Reported Leverage

22 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2012

Philip J. Young

University of Tennessee at Martin

Mary Wicker

Oklahoma State University - Department of Finance

Date Written: August 4, 2011

Abstract

The International Accounting Standards Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board are working together to require that the present value of future lease payments for most leases currently classified as operating leases be recorded on lessees’ balance sheets as both an asset and a liability. By requiring that future lease payments be capitalized and reported on the balance sheet, the rule is expected to result in a significant increase in reported leverage for companies with large operating lease obligations. We analyze the 2009 annual reports for companies comprising the S&P 500 Index and find that revising accounting standards to eliminate the use of operating leases will significantly impact the total debt ratios of many companies in the S&P 500, especially members of the wholesale/retail industry. The magnitude of the change in many of these companies’ debt ratios likely would have a significant impact on the perceived risk exposure of suppliers of capital. Depending on the extent that these obligations have not been properly reflected by financial analysts, the requirement to capitalize future obligations under operating leases may result in increased borrowing costs and a decrease in the market value of these companies.

Keywords: operating leases, financial leverage, off balance sheet financing, lease accounting

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G38

Suggested Citation:

Young, Philip J. and Wicker, Mary, Eliminating Operating Leases: The Effect on Reported Leverage (August 4, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1993302 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1993302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Vivien Beattie , Keith Edwards , Alan Goodacre
The Impact of Constructive Operating Lease Capitalization on Key Accounting Ratios
Accounting and Business Research , volume 28 , p. 233 - 254 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Vivien Beattie , Alan Goodacre , Sarah Thomson
Operating Leases and the Assessment of Lease-Debt Substitutability
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 24 , p. 427 - 470 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Bruce K Bennett , Michael E Bradbury
Capitalizing Non-Cancelable Operating Leases
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 14 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2003-07
Crossref
Joanne C Duke , Su-Jane Hsieh
Capturing the Benefits of Operating and Synthetic Leases
Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance , p. 45 - 52 Posted: 2006-11
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Rolf Uwe Fülbier , Jane Fehr
Bilanzwirksamkeit und -unwirksamkeit von Leasingverhältnissen aus Sicht der empirischen Forschung
Journal für Betriebswirtschaft , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 207 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,730
RANK
131,938
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies