Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why We Need Carbon Pricing: A Social and Environmental Accounting Perspective

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 9-15, December 2011

12 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2012

Sumit K. Lodhia

Australian National University (ANU) - Faculty of Economics & Commerce

Date Written: January 30, 2012

Abstract

This paper justifies a need for carbon pricing through the academic social and environmental accounting perspective. An analytical approach is taken whereby current developments in carbon pricing are linked to the academic literature on social and environmental accounting. A need for carbon pricing is justified through a middle of the road social and environmental accounting research perspective and the notion of accountability.

The paper has both research and practitioner implications. Academic work on social and environmental accounting has relevance for contemporary developments such as carbon pricing. Carbon pricing is integral in internalizing externalities and there is vast support for this process, including academic support. Practitioners can use social and environmental accounting research to justify carbon pricing, thereby providing further credence to their arguments. This study is one of the first studies to link social and environmental accounting research to carbon pricing and suggests that such research has practical relevance.

Keywords: carbon pricing, environmental accounting, social accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lodhia, Sumit K., Why We Need Carbon Pricing: A Social and Environmental Accounting Perspective (January 30, 2012). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 9-15, December 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1996207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-Gonzalez
Engaging with Organizations in Pursuit of Improved Sustainability Accounting and Performance Posted: 2007
Crossref
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , p. 333 - 55
Crossref
J Andrew
The Accounting Craft and the Environmental Crisis: Reconsidering Environmental Ethics , volume 24 , p. 197 - 219 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J Bebbington , Larrinaga-Gonzalez
Carbon Trading: Accounting and Reporting Issues , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 697 - 717 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
544
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,000
RANK
117,019
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies