Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixing Section 409A: Legislative and Administrative Options

Villanova Law Review, Forthcoming

UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1996746

15 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2012

Gregg D. Polsky

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: January 31, 2012

Abstract

This symposium contribution to the Villanova Law Review describes the legislative calamity that is section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 409A manages, all at once, to (i) fail to better neutralize the tax treatment of deferred compensation with that of current compensation, (ii) impose significant compliance costs on sophisticated taxpayers, and (iii) provide a dangerous trap for unsophisticated taxpayers.

Ideally, Congress should repeal section 409A and replace it with a system that taxes deferred compensation more neutrally vis-a-vis current compensation. Failing that, Congress should either replace section 409A with a broad grant of authority to the Treasury and IRS to strengthen the constructive receipt and economic benefit doctrines or amend section 409A to limit its scope to employee compensation paid by public companies.

If Congress fails to act, the Treasury should interpret the term “compensation” as used in section 409A to include only compensation paid by public companies to their employees or directors. This arguably counter-textual interpretation of the statute creates the potential for whipsaw of the IRS by nonpublic companies and their employees, but this problem is outweighed by the benefits from cleaning up section 409A.

Keywords: taxation, deferred compensation, nonqualified deferred compensation, section 409A, constructive receipt, economic benefit doctrine, rabbi trusts, deferral

Suggested Citation:

Polsky, Gregg D., Fixing Section 409A: Legislative and Administrative Options (January 31, 2012). Villanova Law Review, Forthcoming, UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1996746, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1996746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
See Susan Pace Hamill
A Case for Elimination the Partnership Regulations, 68 Tax Notes 335 , volume 337 Posted: 1995-07-17
F Philip , S Postlewaite &amp; John , Pennell
JCT's Partnership Tax Proposals-'Houston, We Have a Problem
William S Mckee
Federal Taxation of Partnerships and Partners ¶ 3.08 at
Tax Notes , volume 527 , p. 3 - 102 Posted: 1997-07-28
For a full discussion of these notices and how they were inconsistent with section 382, see J. Mark Ramseyer & Eric B. Rasmusen, Can the Treasury Exempt its Own Companies from Tax? The $45 Billion GM NOL Carryforward
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,271
RANK
262,460
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of North Carolina Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies