Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. International Tax Reform: What Form Should it Take?

Tax Notes International, Vol. 65, No. 5, p. 363, January 2012

8 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2012

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: January 30, 2012

Abstract

This article focuses solely on the big picture issue of whether international tax reform should take the form of a territorial system or an alternative full inclusion system. Of course, it is also necessary to compare these possible new systems with the current hybrid deferral system that has been in place for many years.

With little if any explanation of how it might be better for our nation and society as a whole, many persons and commentators whose companies or clients stand to benefit have called for a territorial system. Such persons have included CEOs, members of the professional tax community, business groups, and lobbyists. This article attempts to assess this issue on a more objective basis through a balanced understandable summary of the principal policy issues and consequences.

Keywords: International Taxation, International Tax Policy, Territorial System, Full Inclusion System

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., U.S. International Tax Reform: What Form Should it Take? (January 30, 2012). Tax Notes International, Vol. 65, No. 5, p. 363, January 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1997015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,078
RANK
403,275
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies