Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Reach of UCC Article 9: The Question of Tax Credit Collateral in Secured Transactions

South Carolina Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 1, pp. 143-82, 2012

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper

40 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2012 Last revised: 25 Aug 2018

Christopher K. Odinet

Texas A&M University School of Law

Date Written: April 1, 2012

Abstract

This Article addresses the open question related to the use of tax credits as a source of secured capital. It first lays a foundation by analyzing the theoretical underpinnings of the UCC’s category for general intangibles and shows how classification as a general intangible can and should comport with the legal substance of tax credits as a form of secured financing. The work also investigates the theory and nature that forms the basis of tax credits and their economic value. Next, the Article provides an overview of the relatively meager case law on tax credit financing and explains how courts have struggled with this new concept, as well as discusses how courts have treated other types of general intangible assets; a treatment, which may help in forming the basis of the jurisprudential analysis for tax credit financing. Taking these theories and background a step further, the Article concludes by making several recommendations on how courts can approach cases involving tax credits used as collateral in secured transactions. In sum, Article 9 and courts should adopt a flexible and broad view when confronted with these and other types of emerging and nontraditional security.

Keywords: property, non-traditional property, UCC, uniform commercial code, article 9, UCC 9, secured financing, security devices, security rights, secured transactions, comparative law, commercial law, property, personal property, intangible, general intangible, payment intangible, collateral

Suggested Citation:

Odinet, Christopher K., Testing the Reach of UCC Article 9: The Question of Tax Credit Collateral in Secured Transactions (April 1, 2012). South Carolina Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 1, pp. 143-82, 2012, Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1997516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1997516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
749
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,574
RANK
77,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies