Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Legal Families Related to Financial Reporting Quality?

Abacus: A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business Studies, 2013, Vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 242-267.

53 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2012 Last revised: 6 Jun 2013

Frederick W. Lindahl

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Hannu J. Schadewitz

Turku School of Economics at the University of Turku - Department of Accounting & Finance

Date Written: November 1, 2011

Abstract

A large body of financial accounting research explores the quality of accounting in different countries. A bedrock assumption in most of that research is that common law provides a firmer foundation for good accounting transparency than does civil law. Researchers usually regress their proxy for accounting quality on an indicator variable that designates the firm’s country as a common or civil law jurisdiction (along with other regressors).

What is the support for that nearly universal assumption? We seek an answer for that question. We trace the distinctions by legal scholars that characterize the two families. We study the bedrock research by La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, Shleifer and Vishny (1998) that is the nearly universal citation to support the civil/common dummy. We analyze the design and development of research designs that use law in accounting studies. We conclude that the use of the civil/common distinction as applied in accounting studies cannot be supported. We offer suggestions better to investigate the ways in which the law interacts with financial reporting.

Keywords: investor protection, accounting quality, common law, civil law, legal origin, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Lindahl, Frederick W. and Schadewitz, Hannu J., Are Legal Families Related to Financial Reporting Quality? (November 1, 2011). Abacus: A Journal of Accounting, Finance and Business Studies, 2013, Vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 242-267. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1997128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
401,129
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies