Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elevating Board Performance: The Significance of Director Mindset, Operating Context, and Other Behavioral and Functional Considerations

World Financial Review, p. 11, January-February 2012

5 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2012

Simon C. Y. Wong

Northwestern University School of Law; London School of Economics; Tapestry Networks

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2012

Abstract

Despite considerable reforms over the past two decades, boards – particularly at financial institutions – have been criticized recently for poor stewardship.

This article argues that the lack of attention to behavioral and functional considerations – in particular, relating to director mindset, board operating context, and evolving human dynamics – has hampered the board’s effectiveness.

To reach their potential, boards and their members should: 1) think like an owner; 2) know their companies; 3) be prepared to ‘roll up their sleeves’; 4) take charge of their priorities; 5) hire a collaborative CEO; and 6) protect their authority and independence.

This article is a shortened version of the author’s Northwestern University School of Law working paper (available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1832234).

Keywords: Board of directors, mindset and behavior, board culture, independence and authority

JEL Classification: G34, D23, D82

Suggested Citation:

Wong, Simon C. Y., Elevating Board Performance: The Significance of Director Mindset, Operating Context, and Other Behavioral and Functional Considerations (January 1, 2012). World Financial Review, p. 11, January-February 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1997489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
See
Corporate Governance in Financial Institutions: Lessons to be drawn from the current financial crisis, best practices Posted: 2009-11
A Long-Term Focus for Corporate Britain: A Call for Evidence Posted: 2010-10
Brooke Masters
King pledges radical change on bank scrutiny
Financial Times Posted: 2011-03-01
Corporate Governance in Financial Institutions: Lessons to be drawn from the current financial crisis, best practices
Commission Staff Working Document Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,983
RANK
25,101
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank CEO Incentives and the Credit Crisis

By Rüdiger Fahlenbrach and René M. Stulz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies