Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mismatch in the Boardroom

The Conference Board Review, Winter 2012

2 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2012

Simon C. Y. Wong

Northwestern University School of Law; London School of Economics; Tapestry Networks

Abstract

This article argues that disparity in stature between the chief executive and other directors (for example, a 'star' CEO whose accomplishments and renown are much greater that the non-executive directors) can harm board performance and provides suggestions on how boards can maintain stature parity among their members so as to preserve their standing and authority.

Note: This article is drawn in part from 'Elevating board performance: The significance of director mindset, operating context, and other behavioral and functional considerations' (available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1832234).

Keywords: board of directors, star CEOs, relative status, group dynamics and behavior

JEL Classification: G34, D23, D82

Suggested Citation:

Wong, Simon C. Y., Mismatch in the Boardroom. The Conference Board Review, Winter 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1997481
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,128
RANK
467,335
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Comparative Studies of Leadership eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies