Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Global Perspective on the Changing Perceptions of the Role of the External Auditor and the Significance of Audit Developments

14 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2012 Last revised: 9 Feb 2012

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: February 3, 2012

Abstract

Through a consideration of factors which have resulted in a more reduced role for the external auditor in certain jurisdictions – when compared to others, this paper will consider, as well as highlight why an enhanced awareness of the role of the external auditor in such jurisdictions will be vital in an increasingly globalised financial system.

It will do so through a consideration of the current, past and future perceptions of external auditors’ roles – with particular reference to selected jurisdictions from Africa, Asia and Latin America.

Keywords: external auditor, audits, regulation, financial, bank, fraud, error, financial statements, Africa, Asia, Latin America

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, A Global Perspective on the Changing Perceptions of the Role of the External Auditor and the Significance of Audit Developments (February 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1998812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1998812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
333,158
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies