Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Accounting Rules Be Made Neutral for Bank Capital Regulation?

Journal of Governance and Regulation Volume 1, Issue 3, 2012

27 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2012 Last revised: 28 Jun 2012

Guoxiang Song

University of Greenwich School of Accounting, Finance, and Economics

Date Written: February 4, 2012

Abstract

This paper evaluates several methods which can possibly be used to minimize the pro-cyclical impact of accounting rules on bank capital regulation. Improving accounting rules cannot eliminate the pro-cyclicality problem as the recently proposed expected credit loss impairment model for historical cost accounting may be moving towards using information inputs for fair values. Limiting the trading activities accounted for by fair values may reduce the pro-cyclicality. However, it cannot eliminate the impact of fair values in a liquidity crisis. The most effective method is to exclude the unrealized accounting gains or losses from regulatory capital. But it needs a report of capital ratios based on accounting measures to help regulators read the early warning signals emitted by the accounting information.

Keywords: Bank capital regulation, Leverage ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, Fair value accounting, Historical cost accounting, Financial crisis, Pro-cyclicality, Expected credit losses

JEL Classification: G01, G18, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Song, Guoxiang, Can Accounting Rules Be Made Neutral for Bank Capital Regulation? (February 4, 2012). Journal of Governance and Regulation Volume 1, Issue 3, 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1999467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1999467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,727
RANK
307,614
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank Governance, Regulation, and Risk Taking

By Luc Laeven and Ross Levine

Bank CEO Incentives and the Credit Crisis

By Rüdiger Fahlenbrach and René M. Stulz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies