Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Issue of Audit Liability

Designing Optimal Regulatory Strategies in a Changing Financial Environment Nova Publications May 2016

Posted: 8 Feb 2012 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: February 7, 2012

Abstract

Generally, producers of consumables owe a “duty of care” to third parties. However, it was held in Caparo Industries plc v Dickman and Others that generally, auditors only owe a duty of care” to the company as a legal person and that they do not owe a “duty of care” to any individual shareholder, creditor, pension scheme members or any other stakeholder. The Company Law Reform Bill which became the Companies Act 2006, removed the previously existing limits on auditor liability and compelled an agreement between the company and the auditor. Subject to sections 533 and 534-536, the auditor will not be exempt from liability where he has been negligent, been in a breach or default of duty and other situations which would void his exemption from liability as provided under section 532. The development of the Companies Act 2006 provides a substrate for an interesting research area.

This paper considers how the regulator could implement its supervisory and enforcement tools in addressing the issue of audit liability. For indepth comprehensive information on this paper, see "Role of External Auditor in Regulation (UK, Germany, Italy & the US): Role of the External Auditor in Bank Regulation and Supervision: Comparative Analysis (UK, Germany, Italy, U.S) 3rd Edition".

Keywords: audit, liability, supervision, enforcement, audit concentration, corporate governance, Enron, audit standards

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Addressing the Issue of Audit Liability (February 7, 2012). Designing Optimal Regulatory Strategies in a Changing Financial Environment Nova Publications May 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2001133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies