Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deductible Cosmetic Surgery and the Treatment of Transgenderism: An Analysis of the Medical Expense Deduction Post-O’Donnabhain

2012 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: JLTR Conference

32 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2012

Eric Smith

Weber State University (WSU)

Ryan H. Pace

Weber State University (WSU)

Date Written: February 2012

Abstract

In 2010, the United States Tax Court upheld a taxpayer’s deduction for medical expenses arising from gender-reassignment surgery. This article discusses the facts of the O’Donnabhain case and the Tax Court’s holding in light of relevant legislative history, and finds that a new layer of understanding now exists in the context of deductible cosmetic surgery: in a post-O’Donnabhain world, mental (not just physical) diseases may be treated through physical alterations to the body which constitute deductible cosmetic surgery. Based on the Tax Court’s opinion, we posit an algorithm for application of what we consider a fourth case-law created exception to the disallowance of deductions for cosmetic surgery.

Keywords: deductible medical expenses, cosmetic surgery, gender confusion

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Eric Steven and Pace, Ryan H., Deductible Cosmetic Surgery and the Treatment of Transgenderism: An Analysis of the Medical Expense Deduction Post-O’Donnabhain (February 2012). 2012 American Taxation Association Midyear Meeting: JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2003902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2003902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
I R C §213
Under current law, the deduction is available to the extent the qualified medical expenses exceed 7.5% of AGI. I.R.C. §213(a)
The deduction is taken on Schedule A, Form 1040 Posted: 2010
I R
§262(a)
213(b), which limits the medical expense deduction for medicine to prescribed drugs
I.R.C
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
389
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,090
RANK
174,067
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies