Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Changes in State Tax Enforcement on Corporate Income Tax Collections

Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

Posted: 13 Feb 2012 Last revised: 2 Sep 2015

Sanjay Gupta

Michigan State University - Eli Broad College of Business

Dan Lynch

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Using a new hand-collected database on state department of revenue (DOR) expenditures, this study examines the association between changes in state corporate tax enforcement expenditures and state-level tax collections during the 2000-2008 time period. The results, after addressing endogeneity concerns using a changes specification and state fixed effects, suggest a one dollar increase (decrease) in current period corporate enforcement is associated with a $8 to $11 increase (decrease) in state tax collections two years into the future. The association appears to be attenuated in states with restrictive tax policies (i.e. unitary/combined reporting andrelated party add-back provisions) suggesting that enforcement and restrictive tax policies could serve as substitutes.

Keywords: State corporate income tax, tax enforcement, state income tax collections

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Sanjay and Lynch, Dan, The Effects of Changes in State Tax Enforcement on Corporate Income Tax Collections (September 1, 2015). Journal of American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2003913
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies