Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sweating the Small Stuff: The Cost of Immaterial Tax Law Provisions

William & Mary Policy Review, Vol. III, p. 35-79, 2011

Posted: 13 Feb 2012

Stan Veliotis

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2011

Abstract

The United States federal income tax law has been the subject of decades of study due to its burgeoning level of detail and complexity, including many calls to scrap the income tax and replace it with new approaches, such as a consumption tax. This Article argues that a more manageable and pragmatic approach to improving the tax law, itself a creature of incrementalism, is to reverse its complexity through an incrementalist approach. The tax code contains many immaterial provisions, including two provisions applicable to millions of individuals (the $100 floor on personal casualty and theft deductions, and the up-to-$250 deduction for educators). Such provisions have trivial budget implications and negligible, if any, incentive effects on taxpayer behavior. These provisions add unnecessary complexity and thus inflate transaction costs for the government and taxpayer. For the immaterial provisions residing within tax expenditures, such as the educator deduction, an institutional economics analysis reveals such tax expenditures are ideal candidates for removal from the tax code, to instead be directly expended by the government. The Article offers recommendations as to how to identify and eliminate tax law clutter.

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Veliotis, Stanley, Sweating the Small Stuff: The Cost of Immaterial Tax Law Provisions (October 1, 2011). William & Mary Policy Review, Vol. III, p. 35-79, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2003086
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies