Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A GAAP Critic’s Guide to Corporate Income Taxes

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 1, 2012

42 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2012 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Mark J. Cowan

Boise State University -Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 10, 2013

Abstract

The basic framework for accounting for income taxes under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) has been in place for nearly 20 years. Influential GAAP commentators have recently called for a thorough review of the GAAP tax accounting rules in light of normative accounting theory. Before such a review can take place, GAAP reformers must be armed with an overview of the legal, economic, and practical realities of the corporate income tax in today’s business environment. Nothing in the extant literature provides such an overview. This Article provides that overview, drawing on classic and contemporary authorities from a variety of perspectives. Among other topics, this Article reviews the legal definition of a tax, demonstrates how taxes are noncontractual in nature, discusses issues of economic incidence, reviews the reality of tax planning in today’s business environment, reviews the legal literature that describes the government as a “shareholder” in all firms, and shows the interconnected relationship among GAAP, corporate tax planning, and government enforcement efforts. This Article helps bridge the GAAP and tax law worlds by laying the ground work for GAAP critics to thoroughly examine and critique the current GAAP rules for income taxes.

Suggested Citation:

Cowan, Mark J., A GAAP Critic’s Guide to Corporate Income Taxes (June 10, 2013). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 1, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2003900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2003900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,651
RANK
41,246
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies