Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting for Micro-Entities: Valuable or Burdensome? The Case of Belgium

20 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2012

Stefanie Ceustermans

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Accountancy, Auditing and Business Financing (ACCO)

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joel Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Accountancy, Auditing and Business Financing (ACCO)

Date Written: October 1, 2011

Abstract

In Europe, the debate over the simplification or outright abolishment of reporting requirements for small companies is raging. The government’s rationale for simplification of financial reporting requirements is mainly based on reducing the administrative burden. Although it is important to assess the costs small companies incur, it is as important to assess the benefits they encounter from financial reporting. While the research stream into SME financial reporting has increased, still very little academic research exists on the value of financial reporting for the smaller companies, especially micro-entities. This paper contributes by empirically exploring whether financial reporting is valuable for micro-entities. We focus on who the users of micro-entities’ financial statements are and what the perceived costs and benefits are according to the (owner-)managers of micro-entities. Our questionnaire survey of 93 Belgian micro-entities reveals that the major users of micro-entities’ financial statements are banks and tax authorities. The results also show that although the majority of respondents are in favour of an exemption of the financial reporting requirements for micro-entities - mainly because of the cost and time aspect - still a large part of the respondents are against it. The financial statements are for the latter not only an important internal tool in managing the company, but are also used in evaluating the financial position of other companies.

Keywords: Micro-entities, users, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Ceustermans, Stefanie and Breesch, Diane and Branson, Joel, Financial Reporting for Micro-Entities: Valuable or Burdensome? The Case of Belgium (October 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2005050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2005050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Exempting Europe's Micro Enterprises from Financial Reporting Requirement: Frequently asked questions on the views of ACCA
Chartered Accountants (ACCA) Posted: 2010
S Andersson , I Wictor
Innovative internationalisation in new firms. Born globals -the Swedish case
Journal of International Entrepreneurship , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 311 Posted: 2003
P Barker , C Noonan
Small company compliance with accounting standards: the Irisch situation
DCU Business School Research Paper Series , volume 10 Posted: 1996
Beroepsinstituut Van De Erkende
Europa en financiële verslaggeving: minder transparantie en meer Kafka?
Boekhouders en Fiscalisten (BIBF) -Institute of Accounting Professionals and Tax Experts , volume 243 , p. 2 - 6 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,827
RANK
299,879
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Global Business Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies