Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Financial Reporting Requirements: Developing a Framework Using a Multi-Actor Multi-Criteria Analysis

20 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2012

Stefanie Ceustermans

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Accountancy, Auditing and Business Financing (ACCO)

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Joel Branson

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Accountancy, Auditing and Business Financing (ACCO)

Date Written: February 14, 2012

Abstract

The differential reporting debate, is mainly based on the idea that different types of entities should be subject to different financial reporting requirements. Various alternatives of differential reporting regulations already exist or have been suggested, but the continuous flow of debates and proposals by standard setters and regulators illustrates the lack of conclusive results. Most of the proposed alternatives have the intention to relieve the cost of compliance. However, the needs and benefits of financial statement users of different categories of entities are usually forgotten in the differential reporting debate. This paper aims at developing a first step towards a framework of best practices with regard to differential financial reporting regimes for different types of companies, based upon an in-depth identification and analysis of the various internal and external stakeholders and their actual needs. For this, we present an evaluation tool, called the Multi-Actor Multi-Criteria Analysis (MAMCA), that will take into account all stakeholder groups and their user needs and constraints into account. The outcome of the framework can be useful for regulators who look for economic guidance on how to implement differential financial reporting rules.

Keywords: Financial reporting, financial statements, users, SMEs

Suggested Citation:

Ceustermans, Stefanie and Breesch, Diane and Branson, Joel, Differential Financial Reporting Requirements: Developing a Framework Using a Multi-Actor Multi-Criteria Analysis (February 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2005053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2005053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,324
RANK
182,473
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Diversity: Does it Impact Market Participants?

By Frederick D. S. Choi and Richard M. Levich

The Globalization of Information and Capital Mobility

By William H. Branson and Dwight M. Jaffee

Information Needs of Individual Investors

By H. Kent Baker and John A. Haslem

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies