Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Impact of Fair Value Accounting on Financial Institutions: Implications for Accounting Standards Setting and Bank Supervision

FRB of Boston Working Paper No. QAU 12-01

60 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2012 Last revised: 27 Feb 2012

Sanders Shaffer

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston

Date Written: December 31, 2011

Abstract

Recent standard-setting activity related to fair value accounting has injected new life into questions of whether fair value provides information useful for decision-making, and whether there might be unintended consequences on financial stability. This discussion paper provides insight into these questions by performing a holistic evaluation of fair value accounting’s usefulness, the potential impacts it may have on financial institutions and any broader macroeconomic effects. Materials reviewed as part of this analysis include public bank regulatory filings, financial statements, and fair value research. The bank supervisory rating approach referred to as CAMELS is used as an organizing principle for the paper. CAMELS serves as a convenient way to both categorize potential impacts of fair value on financial institutions, as well as provide a bank supervisory perspective alongside the more traditional investor’s views on decision usefulness.

The overall conclusion based on the evidence presented is that implementing fair value accounting more broadly may not necessarily provide financial statement users with more transparent and useful reporting. Additionally, financial stability may be negatively impacted by fair value accounting due to the interconnectedness of financial institutions, markets and the broader economy. The analysis suggests that the current direction in which accounting standard setters and bank regulators are moving may represent a possible solution to address these concerns. U.S. accounting standard setters have recently proposed that fair value, along with enhanced disclosures, be applied in a more targeted manner. Bank regulators are developing new supervisory tools and approaches which may alleviate some of the potential negative impact of fair value on financial stability. Additional policy implications and areas for future study are suggested.

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, Bank Supervision, Regulatory Capital, Financial Stability

JEL Classification: G21, G28, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Shaffer, Sanders, Evaluating the Impact of Fair Value Accounting on Financial Institutions: Implications for Accounting Standards Setting and Bank Supervision (December 31, 2011). FRB of Boston Working Paper No. QAU 12-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2006381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2006381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
D Abooty , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms understate stock option-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies Journal , volume 11 , issue 4 Posted: 2006
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Exposure Draft -"Accounting for Financial Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
American Accounting Association Financial Reporting Policy Committee (AAA-FRPC) Posted: 2010
B Badertscher , J Burkes , P Easton
A convenient scapegoat: Fair value accounting by commercial banks during the financial crisis Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
9 Citations
Chinmoy Ghosh , Mingwei Liang , Milena T Petrova
The Effect of Fair Value Method Adoption: Evidence from Real Estate Firms in the EU
The Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1-2 , p. 205 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Value and Capital Management: A Handbook for the Finance and Risk Functions of Financial Institutions
, p. 653 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Dahlia Robinson , Thomas Smith , Adrian Valencia
DOES MANAGERIAL OPPORTUNISM EXPLAIN THE DIFFERENTIAL PRICING OF LEVEL 3 FAIR VALUE ESTIMATES?
Journal of Financial Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 253 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Marc Badia , Miguel Duro , Fernando Penalva , Stephen Ryan
Conditionally conservative fair value measurements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 75 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,056
RANK
42,538
9 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies