Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Financial Information and Corporate Governance

9 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2012

Fincy Pellisserry

affiliation not provided to SSRN; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 16, 2012

Abstract

Financial accounting information is the product of corporate accounting and external reporting systems that measure and routinely disclose audited, quantitative data concerning the financial position and performance of the publicly held firms. Audited balance sheets and income statements and cash flow statements along with the supporting disclosures form the foundation of the firm specific information set available to investors and regulators. The disclosure has been a most efficient and effective mechanism for inducing managers to manage better. It promotes a fair and efficient capital market. It is the assumption behind many disclosure requirements that behavior can be influenced merely by requiring it to be disclosed. The information disclosed enables the shareholders, investors, creditors and other persons who are interested in the affairs of the company to have better understanding of the affairs of the company. The Company’s Act, 1956, requires the disclosure in balance sheet, auditor’s report, director’s report and the reports to registrar of companies and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Enhanced disclosure is adopted so as to give better control of corporations. The contents of financial reports and the statement attaching to it, strives to achieve greater corporate transparency.

Keywords: corporate governance, accounting, auditors

Suggested Citation:

Pellisserry, Fincy and Pellisserry, Fincy, Disclosure of Financial Information and Corporate Governance (February 16, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2006798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2006798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,056
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,100
RANK
48,494
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies