Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Go West: How the IRS Should Foster Innovation in Its Agents

Villanova Law Review, Forthcoming

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2002

59 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2012 Last revised: 11 Apr 2012

Keith Fogg

Harvard Law School; Tax Clinic at Legal Services Center of Harvard Law School

Date Written: February 1, 2012

Abstract

The IRS faced a serious problem in the 1990s with taxpayers hiding their money offshore to avoid federal taxes. An International Revenue Agent, in New Jersey, Joe West, audited an individual engaged in hiding assets offshore and gained access to the offshore information through the use of a summons. The work of Joe West on that case caused him to “invent” a method for obtaining the names of individuals investing offshore who would not otherwise be known to the IRS. The article discusses the case that led Joe West to his discovery, the technique he developed for locating the names of U.S. citizens placing their money offshore, and the implications to the IRS of the type of creative thinking exhibited by Joe West.

Keywords: offshore, John Doe Summons, credit card

Suggested Citation:

Fogg, Keith, Go West: How the IRS Should Foster Innovation in Its Agents (February 1, 2012). Villanova Law Review, Forthcoming, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2007222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,720
RANK
282,998
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies