Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Working Capital Development on Financial Performance of Organization

Maleki Nia, Nahid, Asgari Alouj, Hosein & Ghezelbash, Azam(2012). The Effect of Working Capital Development on Financial Performance of Organization, 12th International Conference STIDJ in Mualana Azad University, Hyderabad, India, February 8, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601

6 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2012 Last revised: 13 Oct 2023

Nahid Maleki Nia

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Assistant Professor of Financial Industrial Management

Hosein Asgari Alouj

Islamic Azad University (IAU) - Bilesavar branch

Azam Ghezelbash

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad - M.Sc. Student in Energy Economics - Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences

Date Written: February 8, 2012

Abstract

In today's challenging economy, with increasing environmental pressures and limited external resources, the current assets and liabilities as working capital have great importance and Optimal management of working capital of firms can be considered as a Competitive advantage for them. The main axis of this research is how development of working capital management influences on profitability and liquidity as two important factors of financial performance. This paper is an analytical - descriptive research that reviews the existing literature in this field and classifies them into two groups including the impact of working capital strategies on the performance and the other one is the impact of working capital indicators on the performance. This survey investigates the relationship between working capital strategies and working capital indicators with the performance of organization. The survey result shows that the impact of working capital strategies and indicators on profitability and liquidity should be considered simultaneously in development of working capital management.

Keywords: working capital, aggressive strategy, conservative strategy, profitability, liquidity

JEL Classification: G11, G32, G35, M31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Maleki Nia, Nahid and Asgari Alouj, Hosein and Ghezelbash, Azam, The Effect of Working Capital Development on Financial Performance of Organization (February 8, 2012). Maleki Nia, Nahid, Asgari Alouj, Hosein & Ghezelbash, Azam(2012). The Effect of Working Capital Development on Financial Performance of Organization, 12th International Conference STIDJ in Mualana Azad University, Hyderabad, India, February 8, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4601, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2007821 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2007821
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
723
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,288
RANK
81,167
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies