Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of How Entry-Level Staff Auditors Respond to Tone at the Top vis-à-vis Tone at the Bottom

Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2012 Last revised: 5 Feb 2015

Jeffrey S. Pickerd

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: June 23, 2014

Abstract

Prior academic and practitioner literature argues that the ethical tone at the top of an organization is a key factor in establishing an effective internal control environment. Drawing on self-concept maintenance theory and in-group bias theory, we predict that entry-level staff auditors will disregard a company’s ethical standards unless they observe a strong ethical tone from both their partner (tone at the top) and their supervising senior (tone at the bottom). Also, we predict that staff auditors will be more influenced by the tone of their supervising senior than the partner when these two individuals provide conflicting tones. In a 2 x 2 experiment that manipulates the tone set by a staff auditor’s supervising senior and engagement partner, we provide evidence consistent with our expectations. Further analyses suggest that participants made less ethical decisions because they were less likely to view the situation as an ethical dilemma when either the senior or partner exhibited low tone. The results of this study emphasize that tone at the top is not, by itself, sufficient to produce ethical decision making; organizations must strive to foster a strong ethical tone throughout the entire organization, especially at lower levels of the organization.

Keywords: Accountability, Auditing, Control Environment, Tone at the Top, Underreporting

JEL Classification: M4, M41, G3, G34, L20, L84, M14, M59

Suggested Citation:

Pickerd, Jeffrey Scott and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., An Examination of How Entry-Level Staff Auditors Respond to Tone at the Top vis-à-vis Tone at the Bottom (June 23, 2014). Behavioral Research in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2008932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2008932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
590
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,993
RANK
105,451
7 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Error Management in Audit Firms: Error Climate, Type and Originator

By Anna Gold, Ulfert Gronewold, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies