Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who’s Afraid of the APA?

Tax Notes, Vol. 134, No. 7, p. 825, February 2012

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-09

U of Penn Law School, Public Law Research Paper No. 12-15

14 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2012

David J. Shakow

University of Pennsylvania Law School

Date Written: February 1, 2012

Abstract

The Supreme Court’s decision in Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research v. United States means that tax practitioners must be more sensitive to administrative law and judicial deference to administrative rules. This includes gaining some familiarity with the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) and the major cases that deal with judicial deference to administrative action, starting with Chevron USA Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council Inc. While the Supreme Court spends a lot more time considering issues of administrative law rather than tax law, the many decisions don’t result in a clear set of rules as to how courts are to treat administrative pronouncements. In “Who’s Afraid of the APA?” David Shakow identifies the important issues in the application of general rules of administrative law to tax regulations. The discussion should help tax practitioners identify the issues that are raised when the validity of an IRS pronouncement is open to question. Further guidance may be available when the Supreme Court hands down its decision in Home Concrete & Supply LLC v. United States, which was argued before the Supreme Court in January.

Keywords: Taxation, administrative law, administrative rules and regulations, judicial deference to IRS rulemaking, IRS legislative regulations, IRS interpretive regulations, IRS rulings, retroactive rules, good cause exception

JEL Classification: K23, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shakow, David J., Who’s Afraid of the APA? (February 1, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 134, No. 7, p. 825, February 2012, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-09, U of Penn Law School, Public Law Research Paper No. 12-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2008964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Sunstein
Law and Administration After Chevron
Crossref
. L Columb , Rev
Posted: 1990
Crossref
E G See , Michael Harper
Judicial Control of the National Labor Relations Board's Lawmaking in the Age of Chevron and Brand X,'' 89 B. U
L. Rev , volume 189 , p. 189 - 191 Posted: 2009
O&apos; James , Reilly
Losing Deference in the FDA's Second Century: Judicial Review, Politics, and a Diminished Legacy of Expertise
93 Cornell L. Rev Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,616
RANK
496,121
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies