Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Black Swans: Recapitulative Statements/VIES (VAT) & Use Tax Reciprocity (RST)

66 Tax Notes International 275 (April 16, 2012)

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-10

25 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2012 Last revised: 24 Jul 2012

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: February 22, 2012

Abstract

There is fundamentally no difference between a value added tax (VAT), and a retail sales tax (RST) when it comes to collecting the tax on cross-border sales. If (under a VAT) a seller is allowed to “zero-rate” cross-border sales, or if (under a RST) a seller is exempt from collecting the tax on cross-border sales, the critical enforcement question is exactly the same – how does the system assure that the buyer will self-assess (and pay) the tax?

The simple answer is that the tax administration audits. The more complicated answer notes that the effectiveness of the audit (by the destination jurisdiction) depends heavily on its ability to secure transactional data from the origin jurisdiction. Without a good information exchange mechanism this audit is difficult. The EU’s data-sharing mechanism involves recapitulative statements by origin state sellers and a VAT Information Exchange System (VIES) that shares this information with the destination state. There is a technology-intensive proposal to do the same among the US states, the Use Tax Reciprocity (UTR) system.

The EU’s recapitulative statement/VIES network is a classic Black Swan, a program characterized by extraordinary cost overruns, extreme schedule delays, and dramatic shortfalls in realized benefits. Black Swans have an average cost overrun of 200%, and an average schedule overrun of 70%. The UTR has the same problems.

Program management professionals from the Harvard, Berkeley and Oxford business schools would suggest that the UTR promoters suffer from “Black Swan blindness.” They need to ask if this major IT project: (1) Can absorb the hit if the project goes over budget by 400%? (2) Can survive if only 25% to 50% of the projected benefits are realized? (3) Can take the hit if 15% of the medium-sized IT projects (secondary projects related to the main project) are also over budget by 200%? Many of the URT’s difficulties can be identified through a “reference class forecasting” study.

Keywords: Black Swan, VIES, Recapitulative statements, Use Tax, SST, Streamlined Sales Tax Governing Board, UTR, Use Tax Reciprocity, Reference class forecasting

JEL Classification: K19, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, Black Swans: Recapitulative Statements/VIES (VAT) & Use Tax Reciprocity (RST) (February 22, 2012). 66 Tax Notes International 275 (April 16, 2012), Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2009425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2009425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
) on Draft Council Directive amending Directive 2006/12/EC on the common system of value added tax to combat evasion connected with intra Community transactions; Draft Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No. 1798/2003 to combat tax evasion connected with intra-Community transactions
Parliament of October 1 Posted: 2008-10-01
Id
at slide 9 & 19 (including a suggestion that states only require companies to report sales that are destined for states that have also joined the UTR -that is, both the seller's state and the buyer's state participate in the UTR)
Id
, volume 7
Crossref
Although not stated, it is assumed that the data-set provided will include identifying characteristics of the seller. It should include the name, address and shipping point of the seller
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,009
RANK
337,844
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies