Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alternative Litigation Finance and the Usury Challenge: A Multi-Factor Approach

34 Cardozo L. Rev. 329 (2012).

28 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2012 Last revised: 25 Oct 2012

Sheri Adler

Yeshiva University - Cardozo Law Review

Date Written: February 26, 2012

Abstract

Consumer Alternative Litigation Finance (ALF) is an industry comprised of for-profit companies that provide non-recourse funding to litigants to cover living expenses or medical fees while their lawsuits are pending. The financing fees charged by ALF companies to litigants are largely unregulated, giving rise to a vociferous outcry among critics who contend that high financing fees violate state usury statutes. The validity of the critique depends upon the proper classification of ALF advances; if the ALF advances are to be considered loans, they should be subject to usury restrictions, whereas if they are more accurately described as investments, they ought to fall outside of the reach of usury law.

This Note questions the efficacy of the framework currently utilized by courts to assess whether ALF transactions are properly governed by usury law, and proposes that a new framework be adopted. Part I presents an overview of ALF and describes several legal challenges that have plagued the industry, focusing primarily on case law examining the usury charge. Part II argues that the utility of the current framework to determine whether transactions should be subject to usury law is diminishing, as courts chip away at the centrality of recourse as a defining characteristic of a loan. It assesses, in its stead, the usefulness of a multi-factor test borrowed from tax law, suggesting that under the multi-factor test ALF advances are better classified as investments than loans. Part III proposes that courts adopt a tailored version of tax law’s multi-factor test to engage in a more meaningful examination of the usury claim against ALF. It further suggests that, because ALF advances are more accurately characterized as investments, legislatures regulate them outside of usury law.

Suggested Citation:

Adler, Sheri, Alternative Litigation Finance and the Usury Challenge: A Multi-Factor Approach (February 26, 2012). 34 Cardozo L. Rev. 329 (2012)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2011406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Advance lawsuit funding does not harm your case-we do not get involved in it Posted: 2012-02-13
American Legal Finance Association] members have absolutely no role in the prosecution or settlement of any case
Letter from American Legal Fin. Ass'n to ABA Comm'n on Ethics 20/20, Response to Draft White Paper on Alternative Litigation Finance Posted: 2011-12-02
Issue Paper Concerning Lawyer's Involvement in Alternative Litigation Financing 24 , volume 51
Stinnett&apos;s Pontiac
730 F.2d at 639 (stating that since Pontiac was subordinated to Cargo's general creditors, the advances looked like equity); see also Tomlinson v
Corp., 377 F.2d , volume 291 Posted: 1661
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
292,525
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies