Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Taxes on Gratuitous Transfers: Law and Planning

J. Dodge, W. Gerzog, & B. Crawford, FEDERAL TAXES ON GRATUITOUS TRANSFERS: LAW AND PLANNING, Wolters Kluwer, 2011

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 588

79 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2012 Last revised: 6 Apr 2012

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This book deals with the federal income tax as it bears on gratuitous transfers and with the federal wealth transfer taxes. The federal wealth transfer taxes presently consist of a partially unified estate and gift tax and a generation-skipping tax. The federal transfer tax system is separate and apart from the federal income tax.

Features of the book include: (1) emphasis on text, statutes, and regulations, rather than cases (especially cases that involve routine application of law to facts); (2) “building block” organization (simple to complex estates), rather than segmented organization according to Code sections. (3) extensive use of questions and problems to aid students. The book reconstitutes the Estate and Gift tax course from the ground up in light of modern estates practice. For example, special valuation rules are treated as basic, as opposed to being just “tacked on” as other books treat them. The book emphasizes valuation and use of FLPs. Concepts of valuation are introduced early on and integrated with other material. The authors integrate related income tax materials, including income taxation of estates and trusts. The authors relate tax doctrine to tax planning strategies, focus on doctrine that influences the practice of estate and trust law, rather than doctrine for its own sake, and make reference to state law (including recent developments) as it bears on transfer tax issues, with full coverage of issues raised by community property systems.

Keywords: estate, gift, tax, legal education, estate planning

JEL Classification: K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M. and Gerzog, Wendy C. and Crawford, Bridget J., Federal Taxes on Gratuitous Transfers: Law and Planning (2011). J. Dodge, W. Gerzog, & B. Crawford, FEDERAL TAXES ON GRATUITOUS TRANSFERS: LAW AND PLANNING, Wolters Kluwer, 2011, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 588, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2012091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,702
RANK
268,746
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies