Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrity in Taxation: Rethinking Partnership Tax

Alabama Law Review, Forthcoming

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2012-11

46 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2012 Last revised: 23 Jul 2014

Andrea Monroe

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: February 29, 2012

Abstract

Partnerships play an increasingly vital role in the federal income tax. Yet partnership taxation is deeply flawed, with enormously complicated provisions that strain the voluntary compliance mechanism on which the federal income tax relies. This article takes some early steps toward reform, proposing a holistic approach to partnership taxation. The story of partnership taxation is a story of four values – flexibility, efficiency, equity, and simplicity. Their discord has compromised the functionality of partnership taxation, thwarting the achievement of any of its underlying values, eroding public legitimacy, and impairing its ability to achieve systemic ends at great public cost.

The history of partnership taxation suggests a solution: improving the system’s functionality through the unification and harmonization of its values. To that end, this article looks to Ronald Dworkin’s principle of integrity to develop a coherent vision of partnership taxation. It uses the principle of integrity as a compass for the reorientation and recalibration of partnership values, creating a more principled system of partnership taxation where unified and harmonious values work together in service of systemic ends.

This article offers a novel formulation of the problem of partnership taxation, which, in turn, may lead to a novel way of thinking about the solution. The goal is to take partnership taxation apart and put its pieces back together, setting the system on a path to greater functionality. This article does not offer specific statutory or regulatory reforms, but instead seeks a broader vantage point, outlining an intellectual framework by which future reforms can be formulated or evaluated.

Keywords: partnership tax, subchapter K, tax reform, tax complexity, integrity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Monroe, Andrea, Integrity in Taxation: Rethinking Partnership Tax (February 29, 2012). Alabama Law Review, Forthcoming, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2012-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2013357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2013357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
446
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,406
RANK
148,703
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies