Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Realism About Responsive Tax Administration

Tax Law Review, Vol. 66, 2012

58 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2012 Last revised: 1 Feb 2013

Leigh Osofsky

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Date Written: January 13, 2013

Abstract

Responsive Regulation is a popular regulatory theory across a broad array of disciplines. The influence of Responsive Regulation on tax administration has greatly increased over the past decade, producing a theory of “Responsive Tax Administration.” This work has proven powerful in the United States, causing scholars to advocate remodeling the tax compliance system under a Responsive Tax Administration framework. Extensive, scholarly focus on related areas of tax compliance research, such as reciprocity and service, has supplemented these calls for reform. The Internal Revenue Service (“Service”) has remodeled the important large business tax compliance sphere under the influence of Responsive Tax Administration and the related research. Despite this crucial remodeling, there has been little critical analysis of this application of Responsive Tax Administration to the United States large business sector. In this Article, I begin the overdue task of critiquing the application of Responsive Tax Administration to the United States large business sector by using the case-study of the Compliance Assurance Process (“CAP”).

CAP is a revolutionary, pre-audit initiative that the Service has signaled may be the way of the future for large business tax administration. CAP finds its academic support in Responsive Tax Administration and is consistent with part, though, importantly, not all, of Responsive Tax Administration theory. In this Article, I argue that CAP problematically leverages faith in the perceived transformative powers of Responsive Tax Administration programs to reduce accountability at the very time when increased accountability is needed, fails to use penalties meaningfully, potentially reducing transparency and resulting in a “test drive” effect for taxpayers that may undermine sound tax administration, and creates self-selection bias problems. I suggest potential solutions to each of these problems. More generally, the analysis provides a first step toward an overdue broader critique of the application of Responsive Tax Administration to United States large business. I argue that the particular problems with CAP result from a failure to appreciate adequately the potential weaknesses of Responsive Tax Administration theory and an overemphasis on the persuasive aspects of the theory in practice. While the innovative nature of Responsive Tax Administration theory may have much to offer, we need some more realism about its potential limitations.

Keywords: Tax Policy, Responsive Regulation

JEL Classification: E62, H2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Osofsky, Leigh, Some Realism About Responsive Tax Administration (January 13, 2013). Tax Law Review, Vol. 66, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2018905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2018905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Services and Enforcement lamented this state of affairs and suggested that the IRS intends to take action to downstream and reallocate its resources)
At the time, LB&I had a slightly different structure and was called the "Large and Mid-Size Business Division" or "LMSB
Pamela Olson
Announcement 2010-9: Can This Marriage Be Saved?, 51 Tax Mgmt Posted: 2010
Jeremiah Coder
Global Economy Will Drive LMSB's Future, Maloy Says
LEXIS Tax Analysts File. 237 IRS Posted: 2010
Load more
3 Citations
Susan C. Morse
Narrative and Tax Compliance
UC Hastings Research Paper No. 14 · 21 Pages · Posted: 18 Dec 2012 · Last revised: 2 Jun 2015 · Downloads: 276
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Alex Raskolnikov
Six Degrees of Graduation: Law and Economics of Variable Sanctions
Florida State University Law Review, Spring 2016, Tax Simplification 205 (Chris Evans et al. eds., 2015), Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 508 · 28 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2014 · Last revised: 15 May 2017 · Downloads: 161
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A. V. Demin
Responsive tax administration model and tax compliance
Law Enforcement Review , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 80 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
384
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,152
RANK
176,641
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Salience and Influence to Narrow the Tax Gap

By Susan C. Morse

Tax Penalties and Tax Compliance

By Michael Doran

Tax Compliance and Norm Formation Under High-Penalty Regimes

By Susan C. Morse

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies