Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Efficient Technical Solution or an Ideologically Contested Approach - The Balance Sheet for Business Style Accrual Accounting in the Public Sector

12 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2012

Andy Wynne

University of Leicester

Date Written: November 10, 2011

Abstract

Review of evidence for the costs and benefits of the introduction of accrual accounting by national governments.

Keywords: accrual basis, accounting, public sector, government

JEL Classification: H50

Suggested Citation:

Wynne, Andy, An Efficient Technical Solution or an Ideologically Contested Approach - The Balance Sheet for Business Style Accrual Accounting in the Public Sector (November 10, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2019530 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2019530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Anon
IFAC Public Sector Committee meets in New Zealand
Accountants Journal , volume 72 , p. 34 - 37 Posted: 1993
Transparency and accountability of Commonwealth public funding and expenditure Posted: 2007-11-08
A Barton
How to profit from defence: A study in the misapplication of business accounting to the public sector in Australia
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 304 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T M Carlin
Accrual Accounting & Financial Reporting in the Public Sector: Reframing the Debate Sydney, Macquarie Graduate School of Management Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,939
RANK
204,845
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies