Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 150-Hour Requirement and the Number of CPA Exam Candidates, Pass Rates, and Number Passing

Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 21, No. 3, 2006

Posted: 12 Mar 2012

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

Angela M. Woodland

Montana State University - Bozeman

Date Written: August 2006

Abstract

This study examines the association of the 150-hour education requirement with the number of CPA exam candidates, pass rates, and the number passing. Proponents of the 150-hour requirement argue that additional education produces higher quality students who are better prepared for the CPA exam and accounting careers. Opponents argue it imposes opportunity costs on students and costly barriers to entry into public accounting. On average we find a large drop (36 percent) in the number of candidates in each state taking each exam, a small increase in pass rates for first-time candidates only (3 percent), and a large drop (31.5 percent) in the number passing the CPA exam after the 150-hour requirement. Our results may be useful to accounting educators evaluating the success of their 150-hour programs, state boards considering revisions of their 150-hour requirements, and public accounting firms setting strategies to achieve audit quality.

Keywords: 150-hour requirement, education, auditing

JEL Classification: M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Arthur C. and Woodland, Angela, The 150-Hour Requirement and the Number of CPA Exam Candidates, Pass Rates, and Number Passing (August 2006). Issues in Accounting Education, Vol. 21, No. 3, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2019584
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies