Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Related Party Transactions in Malawian Banking Industry

12 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2012

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: March 12, 2012

Abstract

Joint IMF-World Bank Financial Assessment Program (2008) concluded that Malawian banking industry was plagued with significant ownership linkages and therefore bringing in problems of related party transactions requiring proper disclosures to protect various stakeholders.

Regulatory Authorities revised the Banking Act (2010) and enacted Financial Services Act (2010) in part to cover the deficiencies noted by the joint initiative above. The focal points of the new legislations were to protect the depositors in the Malawian banking sector from harmful self dealings and related party transactions. Other stakeholders are nevertheless interested to know how Malawian banks interact with their related parties and evaluate whether corporate governance principles are adhered to. To that end, proper disclosures are required to be made in the annual reports of Malawian banks. Evidence however suggest that very few information is disclosed by Malawian banks perhaps because the statutory provisions are less demanding than International Accounting Standard 24 – Related Parties.

The research has concluded that more needs to be done for Malawian banks to disclose how its related parties benefit from their strong financial outlay in the precarious economic environment in Malawi.

Keywords: Related Party, Malawi, banking

JEL Classification: M41, G32

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Disclosure of Related Party Transactions in Malawian Banking Industry (March 12, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2020655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2020655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Accounting Standards Board
Amendment to FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures: Legal Changes
© Accounting Standards Board , p. 978 - 979 Posted: 2008
Citigroup Corporate Law Department (2011) Policy on Related Party Transactions Posted: 2007-01
Crossref
Deloitte
IAS Plus Update -IASB issues amendments to IAS 24 Posted: 2009-11
Dti
Company Law, European Company Law and Corporate Governance Action Plan: A Consultative Document. Department of Trade and Industry UK. Directive Proposals on Company Reporting, Capital Maintenance and Transfer of the Registered Office of a Company Posted: 2005-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,127
RANK
285,369
6 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies