Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and Financial Reporting

Contemporary Business Issues, Module 4, 2011

40 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2012

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2011

Abstract

This module will consider the legislation and accounting standards surrounding disclosure of financial data for presentation in financial statements by business entities for which the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) is responsible.

The section on non-financial reporting will cover the increasing demand by stakeholders for more detailed non-financial reporting from both the public and private sector organisations. The next section investigates the features of non-financial reporting, with a focus on sustainability as an issue that affects nations, organisations and the individual. Finally, sustainability reporting and environmental accounting, fundamental requirements from the ‘accord’ at the Copenhagen conference 2009 are covered.

Keywords: disclosure, financial reporting, sustainability, environmental accounting

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane, Disclosure and Financial Reporting (January 1, 2011). Contemporary Business Issues, Module 4, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2021574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R Bayon , A Hawn , K Hamilton
Voluntary Carbon Market: An International Business Guide to What They are and How They Work 2nd edn , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2009
H Bohusova
Revenue recognition under US GAAP and IFRS comparison
Bureau of Meteorology & CSIRO , volume 12 Posted: 2009
Greater City Of , Geelong
City of Greater Geelong Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Cokins
Measuring the new "triple" bottom line: People profits and the planet' Financial Executive , volume 25 Posted: 2009-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,823
RANK
195,180
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies