Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence for the Existence of Downward Real Earnings Management

74 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2012 Last revised: 15 Apr 2014

Bill B. Francis

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Iftekhar Hasan

Fordham University ; Bank of Finland; University of Sydney

Lingxiang Li

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) - Lally School of Management

Date Written: April 13, 2014

Abstract

Prior studies of real-activity earnings management (REM) focus on earnings-inflating abnormal activities. We seek to establish the existence of downward REM by investigating several corporate events in which managers have incentives to temporarily deflate market valuations. Specifically, we focus on, and find downward REM before, share repurchases, management buyouts (MBOs), and CEO option awards. Large-sample evidence of downward REM is also found in our general analysis of earnings smoothing. Downward REM becomes much smaller or nonexistent when there is a lack of managerial incentives in those events, such as non-carry-through repurchases, incomplete MBOs, and unexpected option awards. While firms' financial characteristics are shown to affect the magnitudes of downward REM, market participants, such as analysts, auditors, and institutional investors, do not seem to matter.

Keywords: downward earnings management, real earnings management, share repurchase, management buyout, CEO option grant, earnings smoothing

Suggested Citation:

Francis, Bill B. and Hasan, Iftekhar and Li, Lingxiang, Evidence for the Existence of Downward Real Earnings Management (April 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2022639 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2022639
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik
CEO stock option awards and the timing of corporate voluntary disclosures
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 73 - 100 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2000
Crossref
I Babenko , Y Tserlukevich , A Vedrashko
The credibility of open market share repurchase signaling
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 47 , p. 1059 - 1088 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Brad A. Badertscher , John D. Phillips , Morton P.K. Pincus , Sonja O. Rego
Evidence on Motivations for Downward Earnings Management
Pages: 51 Posted: 3 Aug 2006 Last revised: 15 May 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,523
RANK
281,840
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies