Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for the Environmental Impacts of Texaco’s Operations in Ecuador: Chevron’s Contingent Environmental Liability Disclosures

39 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2012

Stacie Buccina

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Douglas G Chene

University of Southern Maine - School of Business

Jeffrey Gramlich

Carson College of Business

Date Written: March 14, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the disclosure of a contingent legal obligation that arose as a result of Texaco Inc.’s oil drilling and extraction activities in Ecuador. We examine Texaco’s and, after Texaco’s acquisition by Chevron in 2001, Chevron’s financial reporting and SEC disclosures pertaining to a lawsuit claiming damages related to the environmental effects of Texaco’s 30 years of operations in Ecuador. After a historical review of Texaco’s drilling and extraction activities in Ecuador, and the ensuing litigation that began in 1993, we consider U.S. accounting and reporting rules as they apply to Texaco and Chevron. Given these rules, we analyze the appropriateness and timing of Chevron’s disclosures related to the heretofore-unresolved litigation. The discussion employs legitimacy and stakeholder theories to explain Chevron’s disclosures.

Keywords: Environmental Liability, Chevron, Texaco, ChevronTexaco, Financial Disclosure, Ecuador, Environmental Remediation, Legitimacy Theory, Stakeholder Theory

Suggested Citation:

Buccina, Stacie and Chene, Douglas G and Gramlich, Jeffrey, Accounting for the Environmental Impacts of Texaco’s Operations in Ecuador: Chevron’s Contingent Environmental Liability Disclosures (March 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2022362 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2022362
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Globescan
GlobeScan Salon Briefing: CSR in the economic crisis Posted: 2009-02
Edelman
Posted: 2009
Crossref
Rob Gray
Corporate social and environmental reporting: A review of the literature and a longitudinal study of UK disclosure
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 8 , p. 47 - 77 Posted: 1995
A Ullmann
Data in search of a theory: A critical examination of the relationships among social performance, social disclosure, and economic performance of U
S. firms. Academy of Management Review , volume 10 , p. 540 - 557 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Cutler J. Cleveland , Richard Reibstein
The Path to Fossil Fuel Divestment for Universities: Climate Responsible Investment
60 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 890
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
412
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,416
RANK
163,015
1 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies