Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delegating Up: State Conformity with the Federal Tax Base

Duke Law Journal, Vol. 62, Number 7, April 2013

82 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2012 Last revised: 20 May 2013

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2012

Abstract

Congress uses the income tax to achieve policy goals. States import federal tax policies into their own tax systems when they incorporate by reference the federal income tax base as the starting point for assessment of state income taxes. But federal tax policies reflect national, not state, political choices. This Article calls attention to the practice of tax-base conformity and to its advantages and disadvantages. Conformity conserves legislative, administrative, and judicial resources, and it reduces taxpayers’ compliance burdens. At the same time, however, conforming states cede tax autonomy to the federal government, thereby jeopardizing federalism values, such as regulatory diversity and diffusion of power. Conforming states also expose themselves to revenue volatility stemming from the ever-changing federal tax law. Despite these concerns, the administrative and compliance advantages of federal-state tax-base conformity are so significant that states are unlikely to abandon it. Thus, this Article makes only limited recommendations for reducing the adverse impacts of tax-base conformity.

Keywords: tax base conformity, federalism, state taxes, tax competition, fiscal federalism

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Ruth, Delegating Up: State Conformity with the Federal Tax Base (March 15, 2012). Duke Law Journal, Vol. 62, Number 7, April 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2023413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
See supra notes 39-43 and accompanying text; see also HELLERSTEIN & HELLERSTEIN, supra note 8
Such costs include the expectations by state taxpayers that the state income tax base will (substantially) match the federal base. 203. NAT'L TAXPAYER ADVOCATE, ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS 4 n , volume 6 Posted: 2008
E G See , A Mark , Muntean
California's Nonconforming Conformity Legislation, 39 ST
TAX NOTES , volume 259 Posted: 2006
Internal See , Serv
FORM 1040 , volume 32 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,814
RANK
288,883
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies