Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consequences of Transaction Taxes: An Empirical Analysis

Posted: 22 Mar 2012 Last revised: 16 Sep 2012

Irene Aldridge

AbleMarkets.com; Cornell University; Able Blox

Date Written: March 5, 2012

Abstract

A tax on financial transactions was recently proposed in the E.U. Parliament as a way to generate significant revenues. This article empirically shows that such a transaction tax would cripple modern securities markets. Specifically, the article demonstrates how a transaction tax of as little as 0.05% imposed on trading of the stock of the IBM on the New York Stock Exchange would reduce IBM’s market liquidity and related trading volume by at least 32%. A 0.50% tax proposed by Pollin, Baker and Schaberg (2003) would reduce the trading volume of IBM by at least 85%. The tax would have further negative impact on long-term economic growth across various markets.

Keywords: transaction tax, securities, economic growth

JEL Classification: E47, G38, G19, O16

Suggested Citation:

Aldridge, Irene, The Consequences of Transaction Taxes: An Empirical Analysis (March 5, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2026391
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,036
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies