Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Refund Fraud? - Real-Time Solution! Digital Security Borrowed from the VAT (Brazil, Quebec, & Belgium)

Tax Notes, Vol. 134, p. 1165, February 27, 2012

66 Tax Notes International 533 (May 7, 2012)

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-15

14 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2012 Last revised: 24 Jul 2012

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: March 20, 2012

Abstract

This article provides support for a proposal to eliminate refund fraud in the U.S. by turning Forms W-2, and 1099 into self-certified/ self-authenticated tax documents. The proposal suggests that a “digital signature” of these documents should be taken after they are completed. The signature should then be made part of the final document.

This proposal was initially advanced in Refund Fraud? Real-Time Solution! The underlying premise of that article was that the US could dramatically reduce, if not eliminate, refund fraud if it borrowing digital security techniques from the VAT. The article did not however, explain or expand upon these techniques from within the VATs where they were developed. This article takes up the VAT side of that analysis.

VAT frauds frequently manipulate documents for gain, and VAT jurisdictions have spent a considerable amount of time and energy devising effective and efficient methods for determining if a document is legitimate (or original). The strong suggestion is that the IRS should look to the VAT to solve refund fraud, because even though the tax is different, the administrative problem is the same. The refund fraud problem is essentially document verification problem. The VAT is very good at document verification. The IRS can learn from the VAT.

This paper looks at three VAT jurisdictions, Brazil, Quebec and Belgium, and explains how they use technology to solve document authentication problems. In each case a tax fraud is facilitated by false documentation, and the administrative response is to use technology to certify the documents and stop the fraud. In Brazil the fraud arises in the context of internal cross-border B2B transactions. In Quebec and Belgium the fraud is skimming profits from B2C cash and debit/credit card transactions.

Keywords: W-2, 1099, Refund Fraud, Real-Time Tax System, Zapper, MEV, Invoice Sightseeing, NF-e, CT-e, SPED, DANFE, DACTE, EITC, CTC, ACTC

JEL Classification: H26, H29, K14, K19, K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, Refund Fraud? - Real-Time Solution! Digital Security Borrowed from the VAT (Brazil, Quebec, & Belgium) (March 20, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 134, p. 1165, February 27, 2012, 66 Tax Notes International 533 (May 7, 2012), Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Marlies Leurink
Beheersmaatregelen ter Voorkoming en Bestrijding van Datamanipulatie in Afrekensystemen (Management Measure to Prevent and Combat Data Manipulation in Cash Register Systems Posted: 2011-03
Supra note 21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,136
RANK
291,291
1 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies