Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Initial Adoption of FAS 141 and 142 in the Pharmaceutical Industry

18 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2012 Last revised: 26 Dec 2012

Jonathan E. Duchac

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Edward B. Douthett

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: March 19, 2012

Abstract

In 2001 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FAS 141 Business Combinations, and FAS 142 Goodwill and Intangible Assets. These new accounting standards significantly changed the accounting for mergers and acquisitions, dramatically altering how business combinations are reflected in the surviving company's financial statements. These new rules are particularly relevant for companies in industries that rely heavily on intellectual capital to generate future cash flows, or those that are characterized by considerable mergers and acquisitions activity.

Documenting how these new standards are initially applied provides valuable insight into their impact on the structure and content of the resulting financial statements. This study addresses this issue by examining and documenting initial FAS 141 and 142 disclosures for firms in the pharmaceutical industry. We focus on the pharmaceutical industry because it is dominated by a few well defined business models, and is characterized by firms that rely heavily on intangible assets and have considerable mergers and acquisitions activity.

The results of our analysis identify several emerging trends within the pharmaceutical industry. First, strategic analysis indicates that a variety of business models currently exist in the pharmaceutical industry, and most pharmaceutical companies pursue more than one business model. Second, financial disclosure analysis reveals that although different business models led to some variation in disclosures, disclosure practice across firms in the pharmaceutical industry is fairly consistent. Finally, analysis of recent acquisitions provides evidence of consistent reporting and disclosure of purchase type business combinations under FAS 141 and 142.

Suggested Citation:

Duchac, Jonathan E. and Douthett, Edward B., An Analysis of the Initial Adoption of FAS 141 and 142 in the Pharmaceutical Industry (March 19, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
RANK
425,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies