Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Authority on Reporting Behavior, Rationalization and Affect

47 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2012 Last revised: 7 Mar 2013

Pamela R. Murphy

Queen's University - Smith School of Business; Queen's University

Brian W. Mayhew

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: January 11, 2013

Abstract

We examine reporting choices, rationalizations and emotional responses when an authority figure directs participants to misreport the results of their performance for financial gain. Our research is motivated by the assertions of several individuals involved in major accounting scandals that an authority figure instructed them to perpetrate fraudulent financial reporting. We employ a laboratory experiment where a “boss” instructs participants to misreport for financial benefit. We find that, when instructed to misreport: (1) more participants misreport, (2) they rationalize their behavior primarily by displacing responsibility, and (3) they do not feel as badly as they do when they misreport on their own volition. We find that displacing responsibility mediates the relation between being told to misreport and the act of misreporting, resulting in lower levels of negative affect. Our research addresses calls to better understand the role of rationalizations in fraudulent reporting (Hermanson 2009) and lays the groundwork necessary to explore interventions that reduce fraudulent financial reporting (AICPA 2002, Wells 2004).

Keywords: obedience, misreporting, rationalization, negative affect, moral disengagement

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Pamela R. and Mayhew, Brian W., The Impact of Authority on Reporting Behavior, Rationalization and Affect (January 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026449 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2026449
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M Cheetham , A F Pedroni , A Antley , M Slater , L Jancke
Virtual Milgram: Empathic Concern or Personal Distress? Evidence from Functional MRI and Dispositional Measures
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience , volume 3 , issue 29 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Janne Chung , Jeffrey R. Cohen , Gary S. Monroe
The Effect of Moods on Auditors' Inventory Valuation Decisions
Pages: 43 Posted: 27 Mar 2007 Last revised: 9 Oct 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
J Chung , G S Monroe
Exploring Social Desirability Bias
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 44 , p. 291 - 302 Posted: 2003
B K Church , R L Hannan , X Kuang
Shared Interest and Honesty in Budget Reporting. Accounting , volume 37 , p. 155 - 167 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,705
RANK
153,575
4 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies