Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FAS 142: Developing a Framework for Assessing the Useful Life of Branded Pharmaceutical Products

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 2, Issue 2, Spring 2007

13 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2012 Last revised: 1 Nov 2012

Jonathan E. Duchac

Wake Forest University - Schools of Business

Edward B. Douthett

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: October 5, 2005

Abstract

In 2001 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FAS 142 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, which expanded the accounting guidance for intangible assets. These changes were particularly significant for companies in industries that rely heavily on intellectual capital to generate future cash flows, are highly acquisitive, or have invested heavily in intangible assets. The complex nature of branded pharmaceutical products introduces unique challenges in applying the new standard's framework for assessing the useful lives of products. This study examines this issue by considering how the expanded rules surrounding useful life assessment impact branded pharmaceutical products, and proposing a qualitative framework for assessing the useful lives of branded pharmaceutical products.

An effective framework for assessing the useful life of pharmaceutical related intangible assets must consider all of the key factors that define a branded pharmaceutical product's value and expected useful life. Most existing frameworks for assessing the useful lives of intangible assets tend to focus exclusively on quantitative metrics such as historical trends for the specific asset or similar assets. Relying solely on quantitative factors, however, can be problematic when assessing the useful lives of intangible assets with unique value propositions. This is particularly the case with branded pharmaceutical products, whose value and longevity is affected by a variety of qualitative product specific factors that uniquely impact the asset's value and associated economic life. This study attempts to expand current theory and practice surrounding the useful lives of intangible assets by proposing a framework for assessing useful lives that considers product specific qualitative factors. This framework results in a less biased useful life estimate for branded pharmaceutical products that is grounded in product specific attributes.

Suggested Citation:

Duchac, Jonathan E. and Douthett, Edward B., FAS 142: Developing a Framework for Assessing the Useful Life of Branded Pharmaceutical Products (October 5, 2005). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 2, Issue 2, Spring 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Ray Beier , Dimitri B Drone
Casting off the Shackles," pharmaceutical industry current issues at www.pwcglobal
Eitf Issue No
Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Posted: 2002-03-20
FAS 141 Summary, from FASB website, and SFAS 141
FAS 141 Summary, from FASB website, and SFAS 142
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
RANK
534,865
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies