Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of IFRS in Africa

Posted: 20 Mar 2012

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: March 19, 2012

Abstract

In relation to the adoption and adaptation of IFRS in Africa, some recommendations have been proposed by Owolabi and Iyoha (Owolabi and Iyoha, Adopting International Financial Reporting Standards in Africa: Benefits, Prospects and Challenges): That the education, sensitization, and communication to stakeholders of issues associated with IFRS should commence in earnest. That a rigorous IFRS capacity building program should be embarked upon by all regulatory bodies, firms and training institutions in order to provide the needed manpower for IFRS implementation.

This paper addresses the benefits, costs, tax implications, as well as tax administrative issues which are likely to result as a consequence of IFRS adoption and adaptation in Africa. By weighing the benefits which are likely to result (against the expected costs), it is able to recommend further proposals which should help in paving the way for easier facilitation of IFRS adoption.

Keywords: financial reporting, transparency, disclosure, consistency, standard setters, regulatory bodies, adoption, IFRS, tax implications, off balance sheet instruments, debt-equity distinctions, substance over form

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Adoption of IFRS in Africa (March 19, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026074
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,837
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies