Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of Anti-Tax Avoidance Doctrines in the United States and the European Union

Bulletin for international taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 66 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 153-169

17 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2012 Last revised: 19 Dec 2013

Patricia Lampreave

Instituto de Estudios Bursatiles (Universidad Complutense de Madrid), Law School

Date Written: November 1, 2011

Abstract

This article analyzes the main anti-tax avoidance doctrines in the US and the EU. Part II considers the economic substance doctrine in the context of common law doctrines developed at federal level in the US to deny taxpayers expected tax benefits, namely “economic substance”, “substance over form”, “step transaction”, “business purpose” and “sham transaction”.

Whilst this paper focuses on the economic substance doctrine, it is nevertheless relevant to review the other doctrines mentioned above, since it is the lack of a unique and simple interpretation which has led to the recent codification. The origin of the present economic substance doctrine derives from an analysis of Gregory v. Helvering and its subsequent implications in the US and overseas. In general, the doctrine has been applied to transactions where a taxpayer undertakes a transaction or a series of transactions which are technically within the legislative and regulatory framework but which produce some form of tax benefit which is unlikely to have been intended by Congress or the regulators.

One of the main issues related to interpretation of the doctrine has been that two different approaches have been taken regarding its application. Certain US courts have applied a “conjunctive test” which requires the taxpayer to establish the presence of both “economic substance” and “business purpose” in order for the transaction to survive judicial scrutiny. Others have used a “disjunctive test”, in which a business purpose or economic substance is sufficient for purpose, and it is precisely this contradictory approach which highlights the lack of a single interpretation of the economic substance doctrine.

Part III briefly analyzes the new sections of the Internal Revenue Code (§) 1409 (hereinafter, IRC) which incorporates §7701(o). § 7701(o) is reviewed together with the Joint Committee on Taxation’s (JCT) Technical Explanation of the new codification. It also covers the proposed “angel list” of approved transactions which did not succeed in going forward.

Part IV considers one of the most criticized aspects of the codification, namely the penalty provisions applied to transactions deemed to be lacking economic substance under the code, including some possible adverse consequences of the imposition of such penalties.

Part VI reviews the EU perspective of the “Wholly Artificial Arrangement” doctrine applied by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) to curb abusive transactions compared with the application of the economic substance doctrine in the US. Part VI also considers how EU coordination is constrained by voting unanimity and how the legislation affects anti-abuse regulations, since EU Directives on one hand contain anti-abuse provisions directly applicable to Member States and on the other member states have domestic anti-abuse provisions which can be limited by EU law.

This Wholly Artificial Arrangement doctrine has never been stated as a doctrine itself. Part VI sets out to establish an understanding of, and common requirements of, this doctrine based on EU law and ECJ decisions.

Suggested Citation:

Lampreave, Patricia, An Assessment of Anti-Tax Avoidance Doctrines in the United States and the European Union (November 1, 2011). Bulletin for international taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 66 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 153-169, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2026120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2026120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
560
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,981
RANK
112,801
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

U.S. Treaty Anti-Avoidance Rules: An Overview and Assessment

By Reuven S. Avi-yonah and Oz Halabi

El Intercambio De Información Sobre Las Rentas Del Ahorro Desde Una Perspectiva Global Y Su Adaptación Al Convenio Para Evitar La Doble Imposición Entre Los Estados Unidos Y España (The New Double Tax Convention Signed between Spain and the US and the Interchange of Information (FATCA))

By Patricia Lampreave

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies