Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Intangible Assets in Public Limited Companies in Malawi

14 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2012

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: March 22, 2012

Abstract

Intangible Assets are becoming increasingly important in the global perspective as we are in the middle of the information age. Global investors are anxious to invest in firms which demonstrate abilities to grow rapidly and reward investors with high returns in form of meaningful capital gains and acceptable dividend payout. Consequently, there is ever an increase in demand for mergers and acquisitions as means of accelerated growth and diversification. Acquirers are being prompted to pay high consideration in exchange for control of activities in acquirees. Substantial goodwill assets have been recorded in recent times with mixed reactions on the achievement of acquisition objectives.

Possession of physical assets such as land, plant and equipment is no longer gateway to growth of entities. Businesses are continuously being challenged to develop intangible assets as means of surviving, grow and gaining competitive advantage in the turbulent and dynamic global economic environment.

The study under review demonstrates that no listed company in Malawi recognises and accounts for goodwill in the statement of financial position despite business combinations in the economy. The intangible assets are none existent in most listed companies in Malawi. Worse still, they account for less than 1 percent of the total assets of the few companies recognising intangible assets. The current scenario calls for urgent review of the accounting principles used by listed companies in Malawi and verify whether there are consistent with International Financial Reporting Standards which they claim to follow. Meagre intangible assets indicate lack of innovation and development of human capital in public companies in Malawi. Drastic measures are required to improve novelty and best practice methods in the commercial environment in Malawi as means of increasing its capabilities to compete at a global level.

Keywords: Intangible, Asset, Public, Company, Malawi, Goodwill, Intellectual

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Accounting for Intangible Assets in Public Limited Companies in Malawi (March 22, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2027713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2027713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Susanne Arvidsson
Disclosure of non-financial information in the annual report -A management-team perspective
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 1469 - 1930 Posted: 2011
Advanced Corporate ReportingInternational Stream
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2004-06
Ricardo Blaug , Rohit Lekhi
Accounting for intangibles: Financial reporting and value creation in the knowledge economy Posted: 2009
Bram Boekestein
Acquisitions reveal the hidden intellectual capital of pharmaceutical companies
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 1469 - 1930 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Radhi Al-Hamadeen , Malek Alsharairi , Haya Qaqish
New Trends in Finance and Accounting
, p. 385 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
434
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,469
RANK
153,575
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies