Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Changes in International Taxation and Double Tax Agreements in Russia

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 339-352, 2011

15 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2012

Evgeny Guglyuvatyy

Monash University - Monash University Malaysia

Date Written: September 29, 2011

Abstract

Russian international tax law may be characterised as rather fractional and curtailed. However, the Russian tax system is in the process of reform, and recent updates in the rules related to tax avoidance as well as provisions preventing misuse of tax treaties represent a positive advancement. The Russian government is currently attempting to tighten the tax law and in this vein, has been updating international tax law and the existing double tax agreements network. This paper presents an overview of the main latest changes in international taxation law and double tax agreements in Russian Federation and provides recommendations relevant to key issues identified.

Keywords: Russia, International tax, double tax agreements

Suggested Citation:

Guglyuvatyy, Evgeny, Recent Changes in International Taxation and Double Tax Agreements in Russia (September 29, 2011). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 339-352, 2011 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2027258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
472,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies