Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Law of Insider Trading: Legal Theories, Common Defenses, and Best Practices for Ensuring Compliance

New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 8, p. 151, 2012

51 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2012

Bradley J. Bondi

Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP; Georgetown University Law Center; George Mason University - School of Law

Steven D. Lofchie

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 24, 2012

Abstract

The government’s 2011 prosecution of hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam and the various investigations into the use of expert networks by hedge funds and other institutional investors have prompted questions about the law of insider trading, permissible methods of gathering information, general defenses to allegations of insider trading, and the ways in which firms can reduce risks of liability. As a first line of defense, investment firms should ensure that robust and comprehensive compliance programs are in place to reduce the risk of potential insider trading. Regardless of the quality of their compliance procedures, however, institutional investors and financial services personnel may be suspected of, or even face criminal and civil charges for insider trading. To assist firms and individuals in considering and weighing possible defenses against actions brought by the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), this Article (1) provides an overview of the relevant law regarding insider trading, (2) discusses some of the general legal and factual defenses that may be raised, depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, and (3) provides guidelines for establishing and maintaining an effective compliance program to minimize the risks of insider trading liability.

Any firm that becomes the subject of an insider trading investigation should be mindful that the law of insider trading is nuanced and highly dependent upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case. This Article analyzes the current law of insider trading and describes some of the key defenses that may be raised in consultation with counsel.

Keywords: insider trading, expert networks, compliance, fraud, Raj Rajaratnam, Dirks, O'Hagan, Dorozhko, outsider trading, securities law, criminal law, 10b-5, SEC, DOJ

JEL Classification: K00, K14, K20, K22, K40, K41, K42, K49

Suggested Citation:

Bondi, Bradley Joseph and Lofchie, Steven D., The Law of Insider Trading: Legal Theories, Common Defenses, and Best Practices for Ensuring Compliance (March 24, 2012). New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 8, p. 151, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028459
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
U
14); see also SEC v. Lund, 570 F. Supp. 1397, 1403 (C.D. Cal. 1983) (holding that discussion between Lund and another businessmen concerning a proposed joint venture between their respective companies created a fiduciary duty that made Lund a
Cal. 1988) (relying on Dirks, 463 U.S. at 646, for the proposition that "the individual must have expressly or impliedly entered into a fiduciary relationship with the issuer
See discussion supra note 18 regarding the broad view of "personal benefit" generally claimed by the SEC and upheld by courts. 132. Company insiders "are presumed to know when information is undisclosed
SEC v. Monarch Fund, 608 F.2d , volume 938 Posted: 1979
E G See , Mclean V. Alexander
Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
736
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,884
RANK
79,378
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies