Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for Tradable Tax Credits

New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 227, 2012

53 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012 Last revised: 28 Mar 2012

Clint Wallace

University of South Carolina School of Law

Date Written: March 26, 2012

Abstract

This note argues that tradable tax credits offer advantages as compared to other mechanisms the federal government can use to affect social and economic policy. Policymakers should consider the tradable tax credit as a potentially desirable form of tax incentive, rather than a necessity of political compromise as was the case in the enactment of existing tradable credits. First, the note establishes that tradable tax credits can be the economic equivalent of direct spending programs and of refundable tax credits. Next, the note examines a limited but significant set of circumstances in which the tradable tax credit can offer efficiency and political benefits as compared to refundable tax credits or direct subsidies. The note creates a simplified example that illuminates how tradable tax credits can be beneficial, considering various forms of government intervention to prompt private building owners to retrofit buildings to be energy efficient. The tradable tax credit mechanism can give rise to positive externalities, above and beyond the positive externality that prompts policymakers to implement a tax incentive, that are created solely because of the tradable mechanism by which the incentive is delivered. The resulting welfare gain distinguishes tradable tax credits from refundable tax credits or direct subsidies. Additionally, the form of the tradable tax credit may help create strong coalitions behind a policy proposal by uniting direct beneficiaries of the social or economic policy with investors and other interested outside parties. The tradable mechanism also provides significant equity benefits, similar to refundable tax credits, and potentially reduces enforcement costs as compared to government interventions that do not make use of third party expertise. Tradable tax credits therefore constitute a viable and potentially useful form of tax incentive in ways not previously recognized.

Keywords: tax credits, tradable, tax incentives, tax expenditures, tax policy, low income housing tax credit, new markets tax credit, safe harbor leasing

Suggested Citation:

Wallace, Clint, The Case for Tradable Tax Credits (March 26, 2012). New York University Journal of Law and Business, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 227, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2029384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2029384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,551
RANK
290,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies