Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Forensic Accounting Corporations in the United States

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3, 2011

39 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2012

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

To call entities that issue certifications in forensic accounting “organizations” camouflages their true nature and results in misunderstanding what they really are. They are corporations. Recognizing them as corporations enables forensic accountants who hold their certifications to assess more realistically the costs and benefits of their certifications. A survey reveals that a significant number of forensic accountants believe it is important for forensic accounting corporations to have qualified officers and directors. There are also a significant number who mistakenly believe that the forensic accounting corporations that issued their certifications have qualified officers and directors. However, several forensic accounting corporations do not have qualified officers and directors. Forensic accountants also believe forensic accounting corporations have a duty to disclose the qualifications of their officers and directors but several do not disclose the qualifications of their officers and directors which violates their Codes of Ethics. This paper presents for the first time an in-depth comparison of forensic accounting corporations, their corporate history and the qualifications of their corporate directors and officers. The paper concludes with a recommendation for an independent agency to be established to oversee and accredit forensic accounting corporations. As a matter of public policy regulators cannot let this situation continue unabated. If an independent agency cannot be established, then, as a matter of public policy, states should enact statutes or adopt regulations to regulate forensic accounting corporations.

Keywords: forensic accounting, certification, forensic accounting corporations

JEL Classification: G18, G38, J44, K14, K22, K42, L84, L86, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, A Comparison of Forensic Accounting Corporations in the United States (2011). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2029729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Based on substance over form. Two corporations, one for-profit and one not-for-profit. For-profit is predominant
Status partially disclosed in a book
The for-profit corporation has no members
The not-for-profit corporate charter specifically states there are no members
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
772
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,417
RANK
74,554
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies