Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relighting the Charitable Deduction: A Proposed Public Benefit Exception

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 12, No. 6, 2012

69 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2012 Last revised: 9 Apr 2012

Kristin Balding Gutting

Charleston School of Law

Date Written: March 30, 2012

Abstract

This Article critically examines the efficiency of the quid pro quo test and its need for an exception in order to conform to the purpose of the charitable deduction; acting as a subsidy to those organizations the government feels provides a community benefit. Throughout the country, firefighters risk their lives on a daily basis to keep the public safe. It is, therefore, imperative they receive the best possible training. One invaluable training method is live-burn training, in which a structure is set on fire providing firefighters with “a level of realism that is unsurpassed.” For over thirty five years, relying on a United States Tax Court case, many believed a taxpayer could claim a charitable deduction for the donation of the taxpayer’s home to the local municipality for live-burn training, while still retaining ownership of the underlying land (live burn donation). In recent years, however, there has been much confusion and debate on whether live burn donations qualify for charitable deductions culminating in the Internal Revenue Service specifically targeting live burn donations and the United States Tax Court overruling its long standing opinion. While it appears that the Service has won the fight in the Courts, this article proposes the live burn donation not be extinguished. Instead, Congress should consider exceptions to the application of the quid pro quo test when the benefit of the donation to the public substantially outweighs the benefit received by the taxpayer (the public benefit exception). Ultimately, this will encourage donations that otherwise would be underfunded, as is the case in live burn donations. In conclusion, this Article proposes an amendment to charitable deductions, thereby allowing a charitable deduction for live burn donations, while recognizing the need for limitations given the perceived abuse and the valuation difficulties of the live burn donation.

Keywords: charitable deductions, Rolfs, live-burn, 170, American Bar Endowment, public benefit

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H29

Suggested Citation:

Gutting, Kristin Balding, Relighting the Charitable Deduction: A Proposed Public Benefit Exception (March 30, 2012). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 12, No. 6, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2031709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
T C M Scharf
Crossref
Id
All factors bearing on value are relevant, including the cost, selling price, sales of comparable properties, the present condition of the property, opinion evidence and market conditions.‖). 205. Id. 206. In re Scharf , volume 36031 Posted: 1974-03-20
Id
, volume 680 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Id
quoting United States v. Am. Bar Endowment , volume 105
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
618,773
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies