Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Effectiveness of External Auditors for Public Limited Companies in Malawi

5 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2012

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 8, 2012

Abstract

The roles and liabilities of public accountants (audit firms) are limited to the members (shareholders) or those charged with corporate governance (such as trustees) of a particular firm as clearly affirmed in International Standard on Auditing (ISA 200) – Objectives of the auditor.

The results of this study however suggest that significant business is denominated by only two international audit firms in Malawi. This could be a potential source of conflict as the dominant public accountants firms may not have sufficient resources to effectively undertake quality control measures and avoid accidental or intentional leaking of sensitive information between or among competitors. Regulatory authorities should explore means of protecting shareholders.

Keywords: Auditor, companies, Malawi, External, ISA

JEL Classification: K20, K29, L50, M40

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Evaluating the Effectiveness of External Auditors for Public Limited Companies in Malawi (April 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2032586 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2032586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,752
RANK
249,052
4 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies