Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do S Corporations Have Rights to Germany-U.S. Treaty Benefits?

Tax Notes International, Vol. 45, No. 4, p. 349, 2007

5 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2012

Harald Plewka

HPL Plewka & Coll. LLP

Stefan Renger

Steuerkiller Steuerberatungsgesellschaft mbH

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

U.S. corporations have the option of being taxed like partnerships. Also, those corporations often hold shares in German companies. In those cases, the German Federal Tax Office denies U.S. corporations the reduced withholding tax rate for dividends on substantial shareholdings according to the Germany-U.S. tax treaty. That view was recently supported by the Tax Court of Cologne, which has competence at first instance to hear all claims against the German Federal Tax Office throughout Germany. The court went further and held that those corporations were not entitled to any benefits under the treaty. However, the judgment is not convincing.

Keywords: tax, S corporation, Germany

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Plewka, Harald and Renger, Stefan, Do S Corporations Have Rights to Germany-U.S. Treaty Benefits? (2007). Tax Notes International, Vol. 45, No. 4, p. 349, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2032262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,286
RANK
340,955
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies