Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Auditing: Theory Origin and Development Path

7 Pages Posted: 8 Apr 2012

Xihui Chen

Nanjing Audit University - School of International Auditing

Biao Zhong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Lianghua Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 3, 2012

Abstract

Accounting is always accompanied with auditing. In 1950s, management auditing emerged with the rise of management accounting. From current view, the fundamental motivation of auditing and accounting development is accountability, and both of their ultimate goal is adding value. Therefore, the integration of financial and management accounting is an irresistible trend in the long term, and they will finally bloom into “pan accounting”, whose core is value chain accounting. Financial auditing and management auditing are also merging into a risk-oriented and value-added auditing.

Keywords: accounting, auditing, accountability, value added, development path

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xihui and Zhong, Biao and Chen, Lianghua, Accounting and Auditing: Theory Origin and Development Path (April 3, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2034033 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2034033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,262
RANK
34,847
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies