Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ripple Effects: Sarbanes Oxley’s Impact upon Investor Risk in a Global Economy

(Forthcoming: May), Vakkur, N. and Herrera, Z. (2012), Ripple Effects: Sarbanes Oxley's Impact upon Investor Risk in a Global Economy, Review of Accounting and Finance.

33 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2012

Nicholas V. Vakkur

Trident University

Zulma Herrera

Herrera-Vakkur Consulting

Date Written: May 5, 2012

Abstract

Purpose: This study seeks to evaluate, in a global context, the impact of Sarbanes Oxley Act on a particular risk measure of importance to investors (risk-adjusted returns), and two measures of risk due to asymmetry (upside and downside risk). A unique dataset permits a dual evaluation of the law’s impact upon such measures in leading non-US economies as well (i.e., “ripple effects”).

Design/methodology/approach: Hypotheses are empirically evaluated on a sample (n = 712) of the largest US and European firms (control) using daily return data from 1993 through 2009 — one of the most extensive data sets employed in the literature on this topic to date. The reliability of our risk measures is carefully evaluated using multiple approaches, including Fama-MacBeth regressions. We then employ a series of difference-in-difference analyses to empirically assess Sarbanes Oxley’s impact upon equity risk. Findings: Our findings suggest Sarbanes Oxley decreased both risk-adjusted returns and upside risk, whereas downside risk fails to explain the cross section of returns for the largest US firms. From a global perspective, we suggest that the enactment of Sarbanes Oxley’s in the US motivated leading non-US economies to adopt similar regulatory measures, which caused “ripple effects”— e.g., effects similar to those documented in this paper — in leading non-US economies.

Practical implications: Our findings suggest that comprehensive financial regulations, such as Sarbanes Oxley Act, are properly envisaged at the global level, as their impact is not confined to the home country. In an increasingly globalized economy, investor welfare is likely to be influenced — directly as well as indirectly — by economic and financial regulation(s) enacted in foreign economies. Arguably, this suggests the pivotal importance of effective mechanisms of global governance, such that a purely domestic approach to regulation may be shortsighted. In either case, the findings of this study are entirely relevant if regulators are to consider the broader, global impact of regulation upon investor welfare.

Originality/value: This is the first study to empirically analyze, within a global framework, Sarbanes Oxley’s risk implications without relying upon a series of simple mean variance analyses. Substantive research documents that the methodological approach we employ is more precise, reliable as well as ‘investor relevant’. Furthermore, we seek to assess the law’s impact upon leading non-US equity markets, a first for the literature. Consequently, this study provides a robust evaluation of the law’s (international) impact upon firm (equity) risk, making an important contribution to the literature.

Keywords: Sarbanes Oxley, financial regulation, global financial crisis, ethics in accounting, risk analysis, equity risk, asymmetric risk

JEL Classification: B23, B41, C10, C12, C13, C14, C20, C40, C50, C81, D80, D81, E61, G10, G11, G14, G15, G18, G34, G38

Suggested Citation:

Vakkur, Nicholas V. and Herrera, Zulma, Ripple Effects: Sarbanes Oxley’s Impact upon Investor Risk in a Global Economy (May 5, 2012). (Forthcoming: May), Vakkur, N. and Herrera, Z. (2012), Ripple Effects: Sarbanes Oxley's Impact upon Investor Risk in a Global Economy, Review of Accounting and Finance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2035028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
A Akhigbe , A D Martin , T Nishikawa
Changes in risk of foreign firms listed in the U.S. following Sarbanes-Oxley
Journal of Multinational Financial Management , volume 19 , p. 193 - 205 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Akhigbe , A D Martin
Valuation impact of Sarbanes-Oxley: Evidence from disclosure and governance within the financial services industry
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 30 , p. 989 - 1006 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Ang , J Chen , Y Xing
Review of Financial Studies , volume 19 , p. 1191 - 1239 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Bargeron , Ll; Lehn , Zutter
Sarbanes-Oxley and corporate risk-taking
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 34 - 52 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,249
RANK
153,172
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies