Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements

25 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2012

Sharmendra Chaudhry

National Law School of India University (NLSIU)

Date Written: April 8, 2012

Abstract

The concept of double taxation has been the subject matter engaging the attention of the courts in India and abroad from time to time. The Supreme Court in Laxmipat Singhnia v. CIT has made it clear – “it is a basic rule of the law of taxation that unless otherwise expressly provided income cannot be taxed twice. Again it is not open to the Income Tax Officer, if the income has accrued to the assessee and is liable to be included in the total income of a particular year, to ignore the accrual and thereafter to tax it as the income of another year on the basis of receipt.” This principle enunciated by the Supreme Court has also been given statutory recognition in the Income Tax Act through Explanation 2 to Section 5 of the Income Tax Act.

A separate branch in the law of taxation has been developed in India after a number of DTAAs (Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements) entered into by India with several foreign countries. The reason for these Agreements coming into play was in cases where a person having source of income in India was the resident of another country. For the purpose of DTAA, the income is considered as sourced in a country if the tax-payer is based there. Both the countries would like to tax the income of a person arising from the same transaction, because the desire of a country for taxation can never be satisfied. That’s where the DTAA comes into play. It may vest right to tax a particular type of income in one of the contesting States. A right to tax a particular income under the DTAA may depend on certain conditions. For example, business income is generally taxable in the source state if the enterprise has a permanent establishment therein. (By source state is meant the state where the income arises or the state the residents of which make payment to the residents of the other contracting state.)

Keywords: tax, taxation, DTAA, DTA, double taxation, double taxation avoidance agreement, Mauritius

JEL Classification: K10, K11, K12

Suggested Citation:

Chaudhry, Sharmendra, Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements (April 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2036494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2036494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Ahuja Girish , Gupta Ravi
Practical Approach to Income Tax
D P Mittal
Taxman's Indian Double Taxation Agreements & Tax Laws Posted: 2004
S Rajaratnam , B V Venkataramaiah
Commentary on Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements, (3 rd Edn. Part I Posted: 2007
R Santhanam
Handbook on Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements & Tax Planning for Collaborations Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,617
RANK
14,916
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies