Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reform of the EU Market Abuse Law: Revolution or Evolution?

The Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, Vol. 19, pp. 195-205, 2012

11 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2012

Mathias Siems

European University Institute (EUI); University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research

Matthijs Nelemans

Tilburg Law School

Date Written: April 10, 2012

Abstract

This paper discusses whether the forthcoming reform of market abuse law, as proposed by the EU Commission in October 2011, may be seen as a ‘revolution’ or a mere ‘evolution’. Section 1 explains the topicality of regulating market abuse (ie insider dealing and market manipulation), both in the US and the EU. Section 2 analyses to what extent the transformation of the current Market Abuse Directive into a Regulation and the new Directive on criminal sanctions may be regarded as ‘revolutionary’. Section 3 deals with the substantive changes which seem to be more ‘evolutionary’ in updating and improving some aspects of the previous law. In section 4 we briefly discuss our main concerns with the proposed reform.

Keywords: market abuse, insider dealing, market manipulation, market abuse directive, securities regulation

JEL Classification: G38, K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Siems, Mathias and Nelemans, Matthijs, The Reform of the EU Market Abuse Law: Revolution or Evolution? (April 10, 2012). The Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, Vol. 19, pp. 195-205, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2037727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,091
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,043
RANK
46,273
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies