Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Fair Value

'Intellectual Capital Accounting: Modern State and Perspectives of Development', Kharkiv Institute of Business and Management, 2008

16 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2012 Last revised: 17 Apr 2012

Renata Dylag

Kozminski University

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

According to International Financial Reporting Standards fair value has been applied as a compulsory or alternative basis for the valuation of most financial statement’s elements. The article scrutinizes solutions contained in IAS/IFRS by showing the main areas of application of the fair value method. Based on specific selected IAS/IFRS solutions, a review was made of allowable methods and techniques for determining fair value and a hierarchy of applications was suggested that would ensure correctness and reliability of valuation of the components of financial statements.

Keywords: fair value, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dylag, Renata, Financial Reporting and Fair Value (2008). 'Intellectual Capital Accounting: Modern State and Perspectives of Development', Kharkiv Institute of Business and Management, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2038435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
RANK
381,120
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies