Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT): Mining Project Evaluation Techniques

(2010) 14(1) Tax Specialist pp11-17

7 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2012

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Richard Nash

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 1, 2010

Abstract

The authors contend that narrow outcomes are the result of using the prevalent mining industry project technique of ‘internal rate of return’ for the modelling of the proposed minerals resource rent tax (MRRT). For tax practitioners unfamiliar with the mining sector, the modelling (using current MRRT assumptions) that the mining industry typically uses for their projects is shown, followed by a discussion on why the IRR technique skews views of the proposed tax.

Keywords: Australia tax, minerals resource rent tax, petroleum resource rent tax, multinational mining industry, mining industry, tax politics, asset valuation

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane and Nash, Richard, Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT): Mining Project Evaluation Techniques (August 1, 2010). (2010) 14(1) Tax Specialist pp11-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2045278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
1 Citations
Diane Kraal
The Petroleum Resource Rent Tax: Overview of Primary Documents and Literature Leading to the 1987 Legislation
Tax and Transfer Policy Institute - Working Paper 9/2016 · 36 Pages · Posted: 27 Oct 2016 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
202,849
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies