Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is United States Corporate Tax Policy Outsourcing America? A Critical Analysis of the Proposed Tax Holiday for Trapped CFC Earnings

Villanova Law Review, Vol. 56, No. 5, 2012

24 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2012

Robert Bloink

University of South Dakota Law School

Date Written: March 21, 2012

Abstract

U.S.-based multinational corporations are calling for a tax holiday that would allow them to repatriate their foreign earnings at little tax cost. With over $1 trillion in earnings trapped offshore and untaxed by the U.S., these corporations characterize the proposed repatriation holiday as a stimulus of sorts for the flagging U.S. economy. But the last time the U.S. opened this loophole, it did little to stimulate domestic reinvestment or jobs creation. U.S. firms repatriated hundreds of billions of dollars under the 2005 program but eschewed domestic reinvestment and jobs creation in favor of maneuvers, like stock buybacks and dividends, that funneled the cash to shareholders. This paper examines the perils of an open ended tax holiday and proposes a more targeted solution for putting those offshore deferred U.S. MNC earnings to work creating U.S. jobs. Our proposal would force corporate America justify their participation in the subsidy and answer the question of how they will use their repatriated offshore earnings — to enrich Wall Street shareholders or to make their U.S. work force more competitive in the world economy.

Keywords: Tax Holiday, United States Multinational Corporation, Domestic Reinvestment, Foreign Earnings

JEL Classification: K30, K34, K00, H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Bloink, Robert, Is United States Corporate Tax Policy Outsourcing America? A Critical Analysis of the Proposed Tax Holiday for Trapped CFC Earnings (March 21, 2012). Villanova Law Review, Vol. 56, No. 5, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2045859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Justice, and Commerce, the Judiciary and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, § 610
Immigrant Investor Pilot Program
Fed , F R Reg ; C
(e) (2011) (setting forth relevant provisions for employment-based immigration visa program (citing Immigration and Nationality , volume 17920 Posted: 1994-04-15
Andrew Frascone
The EB-5 Visa, EON-EB5 ELITE GRP Posted: 2010-04-10
Load more
1 Citations
Ali Ahmed , Chris Jones , Yama Temouri
The Relationship Between MNE Tax Haven Use and FDI into Developing Economies Characterized by Capital Flight
Transnational Corporations Journal, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2020 · 30 Pages · Posted: 15 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 368
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
580,215
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies