Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New FATCA Information Reporting Requirement Under Code Sec. 6038D and the Temporary and Proposed Regulations: A Comparison to the FBAR

Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2012

27 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2012

Dean Marsan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 31, 2012

Abstract

According to one recent statement by an IRS official, “Americans now have $1 trillion — trillion with a ‘t’ — in assets offshore and illegally evade $40 to $70 billion in U.S. taxes each year [through] offshore tax dodges.” Another estimate put the tax gap at an estimated $100 billion in tax revenues each year as a result of offshore tax abuses, primarily from the use by U.S. taxpayers or their controlled foreign entities of concealed and undeclared accounts. It is not surprising that the government in order to eliminate this tax gap in the face of a large budget deficit, ratcheted up its pressure on taxpayers who have structured their activities, in many cases with the active help and assistance of promoters and facilitators, to avoid filing FBARs and reporting their taxable income from these offshore accounts.

On March 18, 2010, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act (“HIRE Act”) was signed into law and added an entirely new U.S. withholding and information reporting tax regime, commonly known as “FATCA.” The stated purpose of the new law is to clamp down on tax evasion and improve taxpayer compliance by giving the IRS new administrative tools to detect, deter and discourage offshore tax abuses. The Congressional sponsors’ joint statement for a predecessor bill said: “[FATCA] will force foreign financial institutions, foreign trusts, and foreign corporations to provide information about their U.S. account holders, grantors, and owners, respectively.

This article will focus on the new reporting responsibilities under Code Sec. 6038D and the temporary and proposed regulations, which now impose new broad-based information reporting on individuals who are U.S. citizens or resident aliens. More specifically, this article will compare the current FBAR reporting requirements to the new Form 8938, Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets, required to be filed as part of an income tax return if certain filing thresholds are met. For a tabular comparison of Form 8938 and the FBAR Form TD F 90-22.1 See Exhibit I.

While FBAR reporting based upon the Bank Secrecy Act has in recent years become a powerful device used by the IRS and the Department of Justice to unearth hidden offshore assets and to identify offshore tax evasion by taxpayers, the new Form 8938 for reporting certain foreign financial assets under Code Sec.6038D can be expected to provide even a stronger enforcement tool to help to ferret out offshore tax evasion by Americans.

This article is written for several audiences. The article should be of interest to tax practitioners, accountants, and lawyers, as well as students and academics since it provides insights into FATCA's end goal to identify offshore accounts and assets held by Americans by comparing the information provided by foreign financial institutions to what is being reported by individual taxpayers to ascertain if financial account information is being omitted from taxpayers returns.

Keywords: 6F038D, Form 8938, FATCA, FBAR, TDF 90.22.1, FFI, Foreign Accounts, Foreign Financial Asset, Financial interest, HIRE Act, Foreign Trust

Suggested Citation:

Marsan, Dean, The New FATCA Information Reporting Requirement Under Code Sec. 6038D and the Temporary and Proposed Regulations: A Comparison to the FBAR (March 31, 2012). Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2046630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Form 3520-A, Annual Information Return of Foreign Trust with a
Code Sec
, volume 876
Id
The Form 8938 reporting for a specifi ed individual who is a bona fi de resident of Puerto Rico for less than the entire tax year under Reg
Reg Temporary
§1 , volume 6038
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,101
RANK
239,334
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies