Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The European Foundation Proposal: An Effective, Efficient and Feasible Solution for Tax Issues Related to Cross Border Charitable Giving and Fundraising?

23 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2012

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: April 27, 2012

Abstract

This paper which was written for the 2012 EATLP conference ‘Taxation of Charities’ (1 June 2012, Rotterdam) analyses whether the Proposal for a Council Regulation on the Statute for a European Foundation (Fundatio Europaea, in short FE) provides for an effective, efficient and feasible solution for the tax issues which are currently related to cross border charitable giving and fundraising within the European Union. The non-applicability of tax incentives is a barrier for cross border fundraising. A solution for this problem should not only solve it (be effective), but should require a minimum of extra investments of charities and governments (be efficient) and it should be acceptable for all Member States (be feasible). The paper discusses several possible solutions which can be distinguished within the framework of the EU. Next, the application of tax incentives on cross border charitable donations and fundraising in the European Union is described. The solution of the ECJ and its place in the framework of solutions are discussed. The Proposal and its solution are analysed, starting with the historical background of the proposal, the problems and solutions considered by the European Commission and the European legal context of the proposal. The paper then briefly describes the legal features of the FE, the public benefit purposes included in the Regulation, the registration and supervision of the FE, the entry into force of the regulation and the tax treatment of the FE. Next, the Proposal’s solution for the tax issues in the light of the solution framework is analysed. The paper concludes that the European Foundation is effective in removing tax barriesr for cross border charitable giving to and fundraising of charities that adopt the legal form of an FE. It is an efficient solution as well for those charities. For Member States that have to introduce a new supervisory framework it might be less efficient. It is questionable whether the FE is a feasible solution. This depends on the Member States’ trust in each other’s supervisory authorities. The current economic situation and the debate on abuse of tax incentives in relation to cross border charitable giving in some Member States imply that expectations on the adoption of the Proposal must not be set too high.

Keywords: Charity, tax incentives, European Foundation, fundraising, European Tax Law, mutual recognition

JEL Classification: H24, H87, K34, L31

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, The European Foundation Proposal: An Effective, Efficient and Feasible Solution for Tax Issues Related to Cross Border Charitable Giving and Fundraising? (April 27, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2046993 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2046993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Fabrizio Amatucci
Taxation of Charities, national report Italy Posted: 2012-03
Richard Arvidsson
Taxation of Charities, national report Sweden Posted: 2012-03
Andrés Báez , &amp; José Pedreira
Taxation of Charities, national report Spain Posted: 2012-03
Ringolds Balodis
Religious persons as legal entities -Latvia. In: Lars Friedner (ed) Churches and other religious organizations as legal persons Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Renate Buijze
Tax Incentives as a Measure to Support the Arts in a Globalizing World
15 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2014 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,525
RANK
322,924
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies