Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Open Innovation and Cost Based Decision Making Mechanisms: A Review

Studies in Business and Economics, Vol. 7, Issue 2, pp. 158-171, August 2012

14 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2012

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Luo Fan

Wuhan University of Science and Technology

Emil Sudath Kumara

Wayamba University of Sri Lanka

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Open innovation has received a considerable focus nowadays. The increasing volume of research on Open innovation (OI) indicates the interest about open innovation. But, still the cost of OI is unrevealed. Researchers are still working on the specification of OI. It seems that the determination of cost of OI is hardly possible in absolute figure. It seems plausible that proactive approach will be matched well with the concept of OI. Hence, OI has been reviewed with mechanisms of cost based decision making with the expectation to make the sense in that paper. It is expected that the sense of common ground between OI and cost based decision making mechanisms will help the OI to make it marketable and vice versa.

Keywords: open Innovation, cost based decision making mechanism, sense making, proactive approach, individual firm

JEL Classification: M40, O31, O32, D81

Suggested Citation:

Rajib, Md Salah Uddin and Fan, Luo and Kumara, Emil Sudath, Open Innovation and Cost Based Decision Making Mechanisms: A Review (2012). Studies in Business and Economics, Vol. 7, Issue 2, pp. 158-171, August 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2050382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
362,814
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies