Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Taxation and Competitiveness: Introduction and Overview

Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, 2012

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-014

11 Pages Posted: 3 May 2012 Last revised: 18 Sep 2012

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Nicola Sartori

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor; University of Milano-Bicocca - School of Law

Date Written: May 3, 2012

Abstract

The debate about whether to abolish deferral or to adopt territoriality has been going on ever since the Kennedy Administration first proposed ending deferral in 1961. The problem is that neither side has factual support for their argument about whether the U.S. tax system, including Subpart F, as currently enacted or with any of the proposed reforms, in fact negatively impacts the tax burden of US-based MNEs. Even the concept of competitiveness itself is unclear. Despite numerous claims, there has been no rigorous attempt that we are aware of to determine whether MNEs based in our major trading partners in fact have a tax advantage or disadvantage because of Subpart F or other rules.

In October, 2011, the American Tax Policy Institute sponsored a conference organized by Reuven Avi-Yonah and Jane Gravelle on 'International Taxation and Competitiveness'. This conference was designed to address these issues in a systematic way, and to form the basis for a better informed policy debate going forward. The articles included in this volume were first presented at this conference.

Keywords: tax law, international taxation, competitiveness, CFC, Subpart F, effective tax rates, American Tax Policy Institute

JEL Classification: K34, H2

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Sartori, Nicola and Sartori, Nicola, International Taxation and Competitiveness: Introduction and Overview (May 3, 2012). Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, 2012, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2050329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2050329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
753
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,561
RANK
77,057
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies