Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Increasing Participation in the Rulemaking Process

Tax Notes, Vol. 135, p. 765, May 2012

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2007

8 Pages Posted: 8 May 2012

Leslie Book

Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law

Date Written: May 7, 2012

Abstract

Agency rulemaking has an immense impact on federal policymaking. The Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”) paradigm of notice and comment is meant to provide a mechanism to allow for responsiveness and accountability to unelected agency officials who wield enormous power when promulgating general rules. This article centers on the insufficiency of notice and comment to provide both input to the IRS and legitimacy to the IRS’s actions when guidance touches on issues that are germane to lower income or disadvantaged taxpayers.

In this brief article, I build on administrative and poverty law scholars who have looked at the ways institutional proxies can help agencies design better rules ex ante, enhance the legitimacy of agency actions, and improve public respect and trust in government. To that end, I look to ways to formalize the TAS role in rulemaking so that its influence is more clearly tethered to its institutional powers.

Keywords: Rulemaking, APA, Taxpayer Advocate Service, Notice and Comment

Suggested Citation:

Book, Leslie, Increasing Participation in the Rulemaking Process (May 7, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 135, p. 765, May 2012, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2012-2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2053641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
RANK
411,653
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies