Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deconstructing Haig-Simons Income and Reconstructing It as Objective Ability-to-Pay Income

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 595

FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 12-10

54 Pages Posted: 8 May 2012

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: May 7, 2012

Abstract

The Haig-Simons concept of income has for roughly fifty years been a gold standard of income tax theory and policy discussion. This article argues that the classic Haig-Simons formulation of personal income, which consists of an individual’s consumption plus net increases in wealth for the taxable year, could not be maintained by Simons himself, is contrary to fundamental political values, is unnecessary, and is inferior to an objective ability-to-pay realization personal income tax. Specifically, the Haig-Simons concept simply gets it wrong insofar as it posits that consumption is an independent category of income. That leaves “consumption” as a deduction-disallowance principle, but in that respect the concept is ambiguous and insufficient. Finally, the notion of “changes in wealth” hasn’t made headway, due to the persistence of the realization principle. The problems attending the Haig-Simons income concept, as well as Simons’ goal of designing a redistributive tax, are resolved under an objective ability-to-pay personal income concept.

Part I uncovers the basic ambiguity as to the role of “consumption” under the Haig-Simons concept of income, and demonstrates that consumption under the Haig-Simons concept should not be interpreted as a gross income principle. Thus, imputed income (and other intangible benefits received) are not properly viewed as gross income in the tax sense. Instead, consumption is merely a deduction-disallowance principle, and an insufficient (or incomplete) one at that. Part II discusses normative criteria underlying an income tax that point towards an objective ability-to-pay realization personal income tax. The notion of objective ability to pay is an internal-to-tax tax fairness norm that is constructed from the ground up by considering the role of taxation (in a liberal society) to raise cash revenue in an annual budget cycle. It also happens that an ability-to-pay personal income tax can, itself perform a mildly redistributive function. (Incidentally, it is argued in this part that indexing of basis is improper from a tax fairness perspective.) Part III follows with an outline of basic features of such a tax. Some controversial points raised in Part III include abolition of the accrual method of tax accounting, disallowing depreciation deductions, and a thorough revamping of the tax treatment of borrowing.

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M., Deconstructing Haig-Simons Income and Reconstructing It as Objective Ability-to-Pay Income (May 7, 2012). FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 595, FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 12-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2053275 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2053275
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
E G See , Irving Fisher
Capital and Income Posted: 1912
Later (but pre-contemporary) advocates of a personal cash-flow consumption tax include William Vickrey, Agenda for Progressive Taxation
The views of Fisher, Vickrey, and Kaldor are summarized in Harold M. Groves, Tax Philosophers , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 1942
Other early commentators advancing income concepts at variance with that of Haig and Simons Posted: 1911
Crossref
William W Hewitt
The Definition of Income and Its Application in Federal Taxation Posted: 1925
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,526
RANK
175,588
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies