Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Exit Tax: A Move in the Right Direction

William & Mary Law Review, Vol. 3, No. 341, 2012

Pacific McGeorge School of Law Research Paper

77 Pages Posted: 11 May 2012 Last revised: 16 Jun 2012

William Dentino

Independent

Christine Manolakas

University of the Pacific - McGeorge School of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Citizenship-based taxation was first enacted during the Civil War, in large part to express Congressional disapproval of wealthy individuals who fled abroad to avoid bearing the financial and physical burdens of the war. A century later, motivated by a desire to encourage foreign investment in the United States, Congress passed legislation in 1966 that offered significant tax incentives to nonresident aliens, thereby creating an opportunity for tax abuse. To discourage U.S. citizens from expatriating to avoid U.S. taxation, Congress contemporaneously enacted I.R.C. section 877, which taxes expatriates on certain U.S.-source income for a ten-year period after expatriation. Congress, and the nation, viewed these tax-motivated expatriates as “economic Benedict Arnolds.” This Article follows the history and evolution of I.R.C. section 877, the alternative tax regime, as Congress addressed the weaknesses of this provision, and the politics of the replacement by Congress of this provision with I.R.C. section 877A, imposing a mark-to-market regime (an exit tax) on U.S. citizens and long-term residents expatriating after June 2008. Along with a close examination of the federal income tax consequences of expatriation under both regimes, the gift and estate tax consequences of expatriation are also developed. Additionally, this Article explores the validity of I.R.C. sections 877 and 877A in relation to the U.S. Constitution and existing tax treaties. It then discusses the administrative and enforcement issues arising under the mark-to-market regime, and the administrative and enforcement issues still remaining under the alternative tax regime. Finally, the general social and economic fairness of the alternative tax regime and the mark-to-market regime is explored. Although I.R.C. section 877A is an improvement over the harshness of the alternative tax regime, the mark-to-market regime still violates the tax equity objectives of horizontal and vertical equity, resulting in unintended tax winners and losers.

Keywords: Tax, International Tax

Suggested Citation:

Dentino, William and Manolakas, Christine, The Exit Tax: A Move in the Right Direction (2012). William & Mary Law Review, Vol. 3, No. 341, 2012, Pacific McGeorge School of Law Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2055837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
200 References
Id
2099 (adding I.R.C. § , volume 877
§ , volume 511
Crossref
Stat
, volume 877
Crossref
110 Stat. at 2093 (codified as amended at
I.R.C. § , volume 511 , issue 1
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
357
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
191,613
200 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies