Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contingencies and the Gift Tax

Tax Notes, Vol. 93, No. 7, 2001

9 Pages Posted: 11 May 2012

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 10, 2012

Abstract

The 2001 Tax Act has markedly changed the purpose of the gift tax; no longer a backstop to the estate tax, its sole purpose is to prevent abuses of the income tax. As it stands, the retention of the gift tax with the repeal of the estate tax is rife with inconsistencies. Although the best solution is to retain both the gift and estate taxes, if repeal of the estate taxes actually occurs consistent with this act, with its new single focus, the gift tax rules defining when a gift occurs need to be revised so that they best serve the function of prepayment of income taxes that may be lost on transfers of property from high-bracket to lower-bracket and foreign taxpayers.

Keywords: 2001 Tax Act, gift tax, estate tax repeal, contingencies

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., Contingencies and the Gift Tax (May 10, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 93, No. 7, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2055793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,807
RANK
311,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies