Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ithaca Trust and Section 2053: Smith, McMorris, and O’Neal

Tax Notes, Vol. 95 , No. 3, 2002

3 Pages Posted: 11 May 2012

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: May 10, 2012

Abstract

Ithaca Trust Co. v. United States, a section 2055 case, held that the annuity tables had to be used to value the life estate of decedent’s wife, the non-charitable beneficiary, despite the death of his wife before the due date for filing the decedent’s estate tax return. Since that opinion, some courts have cited Ithaca Trust for the proposition that the facts subsequent to a decedent’s death are irrelevant to determining the date of death value of property and have extended that principle to apply to deductions under section 2053.

Keywords: Ithaca Trust, estate tax, deductions, postdeath facts, section 2053, Smith, McMorris, and O'Neal

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H29, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., Ithaca Trust and Section 2053: Smith, McMorris, and O’Neal (May 10, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 95 , No. 3, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2055836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,347
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies