Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double or Nothing: A Tax Treaty for the 21st Century

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-009

21 Pages Posted: 9 May 2012 Last revised: 13 Nov 2012

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Oz Halabi

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: November 11, 2012

Abstract

The current tax treaty network was developed in the 1920s and 1930s in order to prevent double residence/source taxation. This kind of double taxation rarely exists any more because most countries have adopted either an exemption system or a foreign tax credit regime in their domestic (non-treaty) law, which effectively prevents residence/source double taxation even in the absence of a treaty. Instead, as Tsilly Dagan has pointed out, the current treaties serve mostly to transfer revenue from the source country to the residence country. This suggests that treaties may be unnecessary because exemption from withholding taxes by source countries can be done unilaterally. However, in the era of globalization (post 1980), the treaties have developed two new functions, both of which apply primarily to individual taxpayers: First, to prevent double non-taxation by ensuring that withholding taxes are collected if there is no assurance of taxation by the residence country. Second, to enforce residence based taxation of individuals by having source countries provide information to residence countries about income derived by their residents in the source country. The paper proposes ways to update the US model treaty to reflect these new functions.

Keywords: tax treaties, US model tax treaty

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Halabi, Oz, Double or Nothing: A Tax Treaty for the 21st Century (November 11, 2012). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2055143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2055143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,010
RANK
172,047
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies