Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Theories of Criminal Liability for Tax Evasion

50 Pages Posted: 16 May 2012

John A. Townsend

Independent; University of Houston Law Center

Date Written: May 15, 2012

Abstract

This article discusses the theories under which a defendant can be found guilty for the crime of tax evasion. Either a taxpayer or an enabler can be found guilty as a principal for the crime of tax evasion. The more difficult question is the role of derivative liability -- i.e., liability, or guilt, other than as a principal can apply to the crime of tax evasion. The theories of derivative liability including aiding and abetting under 18 USC 2(a), causing under 18 USC 2(b), and Pinkerton liability for crimes committed by another person who is a co-conspirator. These questions were presented in a trilogy of recent mega tax shelter cases involving variants of the Son-of-Boss tax shelter. In these cases, the enablers were indicted, tried and convicted for tax evasion. In the first two cases, the trial judge submitted to the jury the theories of derivative liability. In the third and final case, the trial judge declined to so instruct, instinctively feeling that submitting theories of derivative liability would not assist the jury in its task. In this paper I discuss these cases and the underlying theories of liability and conclude that the trial judge in the third case got it right.

Although I discuss these theories of derivative liability in a tax evasion context, the reasoning should apply in other federal criminal contexts as to crimes for which a defendant, based on his or her action, could be directly liable as a principal for the crime in question.

Keywords: Tax Evasion, Principal, Accomplice, Aiding and Abetting, Causer, Conspiracy, Pinkerton, Jury Instructions

JEL Classification: K14, H26

Suggested Citation:

Townsend, John A. and Townsend, John A., Theories of Criminal Liability for Tax Evasion (May 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2060496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2060496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
considering whether a defendant acted knowingly and willfully, you will apply all the instructions on that point that I gave you a few moments ago , volume 66
Larson Transcript
you are not persuaded that it has done so, you may not convict on that theory , volume 67
Larson Transcript pp
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
728
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,787
RANK
80,494
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies