Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating the Politics of Charity: Reflections on Aid/Watch Inc v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation

Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 35, No. 2, 2011

U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 584

42 Pages Posted: 16 May 2012

Joyce Chia

Independent

Matthew Harding

University of Melbourne - Law School

Ann O'Connell

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: May, 15 2012

Abstract

This article analyses the decision of the High Court in Aid/Watch Inc v Federal Commissioner of Taxation, in which a majority of the Court ruled that an organisation was not necessarily excluded from charitable status because it had a main or dominant political purpose. The article reflects upon the benefits of the decision, especially its infusion of public law principles into charity law, before discussing the uncertainties generated by the decision. It is argued that, ultimately, the decision exposes a hole in the heart of charity law — the absence of a coherent conception of charity. The article concludes with suggestions as to what a coherent conception of charity might look like, and how it might help solve perennial puzzles in charity law.

Keywords: charity law, charity, taxation

JEL Classification: K00, K34

Suggested Citation:

Chia, Joyce and Harding, Matthew and O'Connell, Ann, Navigating the Politics of Charity: Reflections on Aid/Watch Inc v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation (May, 15 2012). Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 35, No. 2, 2011, U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 584, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2060663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
290,067
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Melbourne Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies