Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Catastrophe Bonds the Alchemy of the Apocalypse?

26 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2012 Last revised: 11 Oct 2012

Chukwuka Ochieze

Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: May 20, 2012

Abstract

Like other security instruments prevalent in the capital market, catastrophe bonds are yet to achieve an autonomous status worthy of a separate scrutiny by the Internal Revenue Service. Instead, the tax liabilities of catastrophe bonds are decomposed into the several components of instruments making up a catastrophe bond and taxed accordingly. This inability to directly tax catastrophe bonds robs the U.S. government the capacity to precisely influence the behavior of industry participants.

Keywords: catastrophe bonds, tax

Suggested Citation:

Ochieze, Chukwuka, Are Catastrophe Bonds the Alchemy of the Apocalypse? (May 20, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2062986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2062986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
564,240
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies