Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good News in a Bad Economy: Service Acquiesces on Pro-Taxpayer Application of Passive Activity Loss Rules to Limited Liability Companies

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2012

SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 101

38 Pages Posted: 19 May 2012 Last revised: 22 May 2012

Orly Mazur

Southern Methodist University - Dedman School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

After nearly two decades with no guidance addressing the correct characterization of a limited liability company’s activities under the passive activity loss rules, investors are finally receiving the answer they have patiently sought. Several courts, the Service’s acquiescence and newly issued proposed regulations have recently clarified that ownership interests in limited liability companies are not all treated as presumptively passive limited partnership interests. Instead, the more lenient general passive activity loss rules set forth in the temporary regulations are used to determine the active or passive nature of many activities. These decisions have been accurately hailed as a significant taxpayer victory. Taxpayers investing in limited liability companies may now deduct the company’s losses with confidence that the risk of an IRS challenge is low. Despite this generally pro-taxpayer result, this article shows that the recent decisions also have negative implications for certain investors and for the economic efficiency of our tax system. Moreover, even though the courts correctly apply the existing passive activity loss rules to limited liability companies, the recent case law does not present the proper policy answer. Therefore, the article argues that Congress should abolish the passive activity presumption applicable to limited partners and eliminate the existing dichotomy between limited partners and general partners for tax purposes.

Suggested Citation:

Mazur, Orly, Good News in a Bad Economy: Service Acquiesces on Pro-Taxpayer Application of Passive Activity Loss Rules to Limited Liability Companies (May 1, 2012). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2012, SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 101, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2062381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,836
RANK
505,351
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies