Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Constitutional Implications Triggered by the Imposition of Criminal Sanctions Under Section 268(B) of the Tax Reform Code of Pennsylvania (72 P.S. § 7268(B))

Dickinson Law Review, Vol. 96, No. 2, p. 167, 1992

22 Pages Posted: 26 May 2012 Last revised: 15 Jun 2012

Roseann B. Termini

Widener University Delaware Law School

JoAnn Collins

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 1992

Abstract

The first permanent sales and use tax legislation instituted in Pennsylvania was enacted under the Selective Sales and Use Tax Act. Subsequently, in 1963, the Legislature amended the Selective Sales and Use Tax Act and renamed it the Tax Act of 1963 for Education. In 1971, the Tax Act of 1963 for Education was repealed and the current sales and use tax law, the Tax for Education Act, was adopted as part of the Tax Reform Code of 1971.

Article II of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 [hereinafter Tax Reform Code] imposes a tax upon each separate retail sale of tangible personal property or services within Pennsylvania." The current tax is six percent of the purchase price. The Tax Reform Code mandates that the vendor collect this tax from the purchaser and pay this tax to the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue [hereinafter Department of Revenue]. The statute also dictates that every person required to collect and remit sales taxes file returns containing information regarding the imposed tax.s Furthermore, the Tax Reform Code specifically details that the person obligated to file the return must remit the tax to the Department of Revenue at the time of filing the return.

This Article places primary emphasis on one section of the Tax Reform Code-section 7268(b), which authorizes criminal sanctions when sales tax returns are not filed and sales tax monies are not remitted to the Department of Revenue. The discussion is based, in part, on the constitutional implications pertaining to the requisite notice when criminal sanctions are possible. The imposition of criminal liability for a violation of the Tax Reform Code raises questions germane to both the United States and Pennsylvania Constitutions.

This Article focuses on due process issues, specifically emphasizing statutory vagueness and notice requirements. Pennsylvania case law is instructive and serves as a guide in differentiating terms such as "willful" and "tardy." The distinction between these terms is critical because Pennsylvania courts have determined that the imposition of criminal liability for failure to file sales tax returns hinges on whether the behavior is deemed "willful" or "tardy." The goal of this Article is to impart understanding and insight into this complex area of criminal sales tax liability by highlighting recent developments in this area of the law.

Keywords: Pennsylvania, sales tax, criminal penalties, constitutional law

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Termini, Roseann B. and Collins, JoAnn, Constitutional Implications Triggered by the Imposition of Criminal Sanctions Under Section 268(B) of the Tax Reform Code of Pennsylvania (72 P.S. § 7268(B)) (1992). Dickinson Law Review, Vol. 96, No. 2, p. 167, 1992, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2066833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
584,242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies