Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Omnibus Capitalization Proposals

Tax Notes, Vol. 124, p. 1121, September 2009

The Shelf Project

10 Pages Posted: 30 May 2012

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 14, 2009

Abstract

This shelf project is part of series of proposals to capitalize investment expenditures that are deducted as soon as they are incurred under current law. This last-in-the-series, omnibus proposal would capitalize officer and employee compensation paid to investigate and effect a corporate acquisition, a change of capital structure, and a multiyear contract. Payments for termination of a contract would be amortized over the remaining life of the terminated contract. The proposal would capitalize the direct and indirect costs of exploration for and development of oil and gas or mineral deposits, expenses of large contracts to provide services, costs of depreciable property, and film and television production.

The proposal is made as a part of the Shelf Project, a collaboration by tax professionals to develop and perfect proposals to help Congress when it needs to raise revenue.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Omnibus Capitalization Proposals (September 14, 2009). Tax Notes, Vol. 124, p. 1121, September 2009, The Shelf Project, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2070138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Harper Oil , Co
United States, 425 F.2d 1335 (10th Cir. 1970) (Blackmun, J.) (drilling casings held not intangible drilling cost)
Standard Oil Co. v. Commissioner, 77 T.C , volume 349 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Exxon Corp
United States, 547 F.2d 548 (Ct. Cl. 1977) (construction of offshore platforms held not intangible drilling cost
Section 291(b)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,578
RANK
484,258
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies