Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Environmental Taxes Be Precautionary?

University of Chicago Institute for Law & Economics Olin Research Paper No. 601

32 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2012

David A. Weisbach

University of Chicago - Law School

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2, 2012

Abstract

The precautionary principle requires that we take additional actions to prevent harms when the harms from an activity are uncertain and possibly irreversible. This paper considers whether environmental or other Pigouvian taxes should similarly be precautionary. Should environmental taxes be set higher than otherwise if harm from pollution is uncertain and irreversible and where we are likely to learn more about the nature of the harm the future. It concludes that environmental taxes should be set equal to expected marginal harm from pollution given the currently available information and should be neither raised or lowered because of the prospect of learning or irreversible harm. The reason is that taxes equal to expected marginal harm decentralize decisions to market participants who will, facing these taxes, make appropriate choices about the timing of pollution. Taxes act similarly to property rights in a complete market where market participants produce Pareto outcomes. There are a number of caveats to this conclusion including the possibility of endogenous learning, in which our understanding of the environmental effects of pollution or the available mitigation technologies depends on the level of taxation.

Keywords: Pigouvian taxation, environmental taxation, precautionary principle, climate change, real options, instrument choice

JEL Classification: H23, K10, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Weisbach, David, Should Environmental Taxes Be Precautionary? (February 2, 2012). University of Chicago Institute for Law & Economics Olin Research Paper No. 601, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2072698 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2072698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
K J Arrow , A C Fisher
Environmental preservation, uncertainty, and irreversibility
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 88 , issue 2 , p. 312 - 319 Posted: 1974
Crossref
Balikcioglu , Paul L Metin , Robert S Fackler , Pindyck
Solving optimal timing problems in environmental economics
Resource and Energy Economics , volume 33 , p. 761 - 768 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Ronald H Coase
The problem of social cost
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 3 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 1960
Crossref
Daniel Ellsberg
Risk, Ambiguity and the Savage Axioms
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 75 , issue 4 , p. 643 - 69 Posted: 1961
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,094
RANK
158,557
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Harmonization, Preferences, and the Calculus of Consent in Commercial and Other Law

By Saul Levmore

Excessive Litigation by Business Users of Free Internet-Platform Services

By David S. Evans

Mistake Under the Common European Sales Law

By Ariel Porat

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies