Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An EU Inter- and Intra-National Tax Regime: Some Lessons from the German Federalist Experience

Tax Policy Conference, p. 293, 2003

14 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2012

Christian Kastrop

Bundesministerium der Finanzen

Date Written: April 3, 2003

Abstract

The paper by Christian Kastrop describes the German federal system with a view to drawing some lessons for the European Union. The German system is reckoned to be very good at promoting cooperation and integration, but it has been showing growing problems in terms of efficiency and transparency. Efficiency problems mainly stem from the fact that while on the expenditure side of the budget a high degree of autonomy is guaranteed to Länder, on the revenue side two factors strongly limit such autonomy: the predominant role of revenue sharing in financing local expenditures and the extensive system of horizontal and vertical financial equalisation. Moreover, the two-tier federal state requires a complex process of coordination for every policy: any tax reform results from a compromise between federal and Länder interests. The German experience shows that the allocation of expenditure decisions to local governments in order to be closer to citizens’ preferences does not yield gains in terms of efficiency if there is a mismatch between the responsibilities for expenditures and the ones for collecting revenue, since accountability problems emerge. Kastrop points to a “German disease,” where problems determined by institutional factors are accentuated by stagnating economic conditions.

Suggested Citation:

Kastrop, Christian, An EU Inter- and Intra-National Tax Regime: Some Lessons from the German Federalist Experience (April 3, 2003). Tax Policy Conference, p. 293, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2073414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,308
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies