Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Learning Mores and Corporate Governance: The Importance of Soft Controls and Board Evaluations

40 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2012 Last revised: 16 May 2013

Mijntje Lückerath-Rovers

Tilburg University / TIAS

Date Written: June 4, 2012

Abstract

How, without switching to increasing degrees of legislation with hard controls, do we nevertheless provide direction to desirable conduct in the boardroom and thus to more effective corporate governance?

In this inaugural address it is discussed that boardroom culture and conduct is also determined by the prevailing mores. These unwritten rules have applied for a considerable time and although conduct codes, governance codes and legislation and regulations attempt to provide direction to boardroom conduct, it is ultimately the group members (executive directors and non-executive directors) who will need to adapt the specific customs, the mores. These changes are not occurring quickly enough for politicians, and in the Netherlands new legislation and regulations are on the horizon, for example maximum number of supervisory positions and a quota for women directors. These new rules are intended to enforce desirable conduct, or put another way, should prevent undesirable conduct. But genuine mores do not allow themselves to be compelled.

Desirable conduct cannot be laid down in hard, measurable criteria. But using soft controls, the non-measurable but certainly visible control measures, conduct can certainly be reasonably guided.

In this inaugural address it is argued that the core of the answer lies in board evaluations. A formal and rigorous evaluation will bring to light whether the highly desired open culture is present, or whether the individual non-executive directors are sufficiently dedicated, or whether the supervisory board and its members do indeed operate sufficiently independently and have a critical attitude towards each other and the board or executive directors, and whether the board is sufficiently diverse to prevent group thinking and tunnel vision. The evaluation needs to discuss these themes seriously and formally. An internal evaluation is too sensitive for the actual culture of the board to be evaluated. On the other hand an external evaluation every year is too much. Because of the effort it requires, it could undermine the importance of the formal and rigorous evaluation. Additionally, the required effort for an annual external evaluation is also not suitable for the board’s meeting frequency.

Keywords: corporate governance, board evaluations, soft controls, code of conduct

Suggested Citation:

Lückerath-Rovers, Mijntje, Learning Mores and Corporate Governance: The Importance of Soft Controls and Board Evaluations (June 4, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2076014 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2076014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Accountant
Meer Aandacht Interne Accountant voor Soft Controls
Accountant.nl Nieuws, Achtergrond & Debat , volume 12 Posted: 2010-02
Adviescommissie Toekomst Banken
Naar Herstel van Vertrouwen Posted: 2009
Corporate Governance in the Netherlands: Forty Recommendations. Amsterdam Posted: 1997-06
Crossref
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code: Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Best Practice Provisions. The Hague
Corporate Governance Committee Posted: 2003-12-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
497
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,780
RANK
130,651
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Codes of Good Governance

By Ruth V. Aguilera and Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra

Institutional and Strategic Choice Perspectives on Board Involvement in the Strategic Decision Process

By William Q. Judge and Carl P. (dean) Zeithaml

Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger?

By Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra and Ruth V. Aguilera

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies