Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Substance: Drawing the Line between Legitimate Tax Minimization and Abusive Tax Avoidance

Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 54, No. 1, 2006

34 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2012 Last revised: 30 Oct 2013

Jinyan Li

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: June 6, 2012

Abstract

The general anti-avoidance rule (GAAR) in section 245 of the Income Tax Act is about drawing a line between legitimate tax minimization and abusive tax avoidance. However, the GAAR does not provide guidelines for determining whether a particular transaction is legitimate or abusive. In this article, the author argues that economic substance is a useful standard for drawing the line. It is not only called for by Parliament through the enactment of the GAAR; it is also justified on theoretical grounds, and is consistent with the textual, contextual, and purposive approach to statutory interpretation. Moreover, the author argues, economic substance is the best method for balancing conflicting policy concerns in Canadian income tax law. The Supreme Court of Canada also recognized the relevance of economic substance in the recent Canada Trustco decision. However, economic substance is a relatively new concept in Canadian tax law. The article advances our understanding of this concept by addressing four questions: (1) Why should economic substance analysis be relevant in GAAR cases? (2) What does “economic substance” mean? (3) What are the relevant factors in determining the economic substance of transactions? (4) How can an economic substance analysis be applied in GAAR cases?

Keywords: economic substance, general anti-avoidance rule, tax avoidance, statutory interpretation, tax shelters, tax law

JEL Classification: K00, K34, K40, K41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinyan, Economic Substance: Drawing the Line between Legitimate Tax Minimization and Abusive Tax Avoidance (June 6, 2012). Canadian Tax Journal, Vol. 54, No. 1, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2078951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Substance-Over-Form Doctrines in Tax Law
Santa Clara Law Review , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 699 - 750 Posted: 2003
Supra Patton , Note
Crossref
Larry R Scott
Sale-Leaseback v. Mere Financing: Lyon's Roar and the Aftermath
University of Illinois Law Review , issue 4 , p. 1075 - 1104 Posted: 1982
Alvin C Smith , Warren
The Requirement of Economic Profit in Tax Motivated Transactions , volume 59 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
398
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,950
RANK
169,659
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies