Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Theory of the State Corporate Income Tax: The State Corporate Income Tax as Retail Sales Tax Complement

66 Tax Law Review 305 (2013)

51 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2012 Last revised: 29 Oct 2013

Darien Shanske

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: June 5, 2012

Abstract

The state corporate income tax has been and remains a vital source of income for the states. The theoretical justifications for this tax, however, are weak and, as reasonably predicted based on its poor design, the state corporate income tax has been in decline as a source of state revenue for decades. Nevertheless, states have taken important steps to shore up their corporate income taxes. At least one of these major reforms, apportioning the state corporate income tax base on the basis of in-state corporate sales, was probably undertaken on the basis of implausible policy arguments. Despite the ad hoc (at best) nature of these reforms, they have changed the state corporate income tax for the better. An initial goal of this Article is to collect this positive news at a time when most fiscal news remains bleak.

The argument at the heart of this Article starts from the analytical observation (first made by Charles McLure) that these changes to the state corporate income tax have made the tax into an odd type of sales (consumption) tax. This Article then argues that this observation is important because this new corporate income tax is reaching sales on which no retail sales tax is due (e.g., most services) and sales on which no retail sales tax is generally remitted (e.g., sales made by certain internet retailers). This means that the new corporate income tax is acting not only like a sales tax, but as a complement to poorly designed state sales taxes. This Article argues that, assuming that states will not act directly to broaden their sales tax base, they can act to broaden their consumption tax base indirectly through their corporate income taxes.

Keywords: state corporate income tax, single sales factor, formulary apportionment, destination basis

Suggested Citation:

Shanske, Darien, A New Theory of the State Corporate Income Tax: The State Corporate Income Tax as Retail Sales Tax Complement (June 5, 2012). 66 Tax Law Review 305 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2078488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Data for other states is similar. For example, in Oregon, the retail sector was responsible for 12% of CIT receipts in 2011. Or. Dep't of Rev., Oregon Corporate Excise and Income Tax Characteristics of Corporate Taxpayers 2-4 exh
Minnesota in 2005, retail accounted for 16.7%. Minn. Dep't of Rev , volume 2 Posted: 2005
Raymond J Ring
Consumers' Share and Producers' Share of the General Sales Tax, 52 Nat'l
Tax J , volume 79 , p. 81 - 92 Posted: 1999
Phillips
Crossref
It was over 90% in Minnesota in 2005 (counting "unitary" and "multistate" taxpayers). See Minn. Dep't of Rev., note 64, at 6 tbl.D. The intuitive finding that larger corporations pay the vast majority of the CIT is replicated at the federal level as well
The Distribution of Corporate Income: Tabulations from the Schedule M-3 , volume 64 , p. 3 - 9 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
350
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,371
RANK
195,815
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies