Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thinking Outside the (Tax) Treaty

Wisconsin Law Review, Vol. 2012, p. 717, 2012

Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 12-05-19

71 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2012

Adam H. Rosenzweig

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: June 6, 2012

Abstract

While the legal literature contains numerous discussions on how to increase cooperation and resolve disputes in trade, investment, environment, intellectual property, and other areas, there has been remarkably little written on how to utilize these mechanisms to increase multinational cooperation for tax purposes. Rather, the debate has tended to devolve into two competing and irreconcilable camps: those supporting worldwide harmonization based on the network of bilateral tax treaties and those invoking the right to tax sovereignty to oppose any efforts at harmonization or cooperation. The primary thesis of this Article is that the fundamental problem with cooperation in the modern international tax regime is that it builds on the tax treaty model, thus effectively excluding countries which have not entered into tax treaties — mostly small, poorer countries. Reconsidering international tax in this light leads to a potentially surprising conclusion: that the move towards institutionalizing the web of bilateral tax treaties — which has dominated the modern international tax debate — may actually be counter to its stated goal of encouraging broader worldwide tax cooperation across all nations of the world. Instead, this Article proposes the creation of a tax cooperation mechanism specifically geared towards non-treaty member countries, conceding certain disputes in exchange for increased cooperation more generally. Such an approach could effectively replicate some of the benefits of a tax treaty, but with non-treaty member countries, without needing to overcome the obstacles which have prevented full treaties from being entered among such countries to date. Building a tax cooperation mechanism specifically around the premise of incentivizing cooperation of the least cooperative states in this manner could harness the same forces that led to the emergence of the modern international tax regime in the early twentieth century to address the fiscal crisis facing the early twenty-first century.

Keywords: International tax, multinational tax cooperation, bilateral tax treaties, tax sovereignty

Suggested Citation:

Rosenzweig, Adam H., Thinking Outside the (Tax) Treaty (June 6, 2012). Wisconsin Law Review, Vol. 2012, p. 717, 2012, Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 12-05-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2079346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
Virtual PE: International Taxation and the Fairness Act
U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 328 Pages: 3 Posted: 2 May 2013 Last revised: 15 May 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tax L , Rev
, volume 507 Posted: 1997
In fact, agreement to any baseline principle that would provide more than an insubstantial benefit to countries such as the United States would be sufficient
See infra Appendix A
E G See
United States Model Income Tax Convention, art , volume 4 Posted: 2006-11-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
282
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,349
RANK
247,257
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies