Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Need for the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Some Explanations for the Pace of Implementation

IGI Global Publications, Forthcoming

8 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2012 Last revised: 14 Dec 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: June 9, 2012

Abstract

Whilst the impact of globalisation and harmonisation is currently being witnessed around the globe, and the need to embrace the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) is becoming increasingly evident, certain jurisdictions have been much quicker in their embrace, adoption and adaptation of International Financial Reporting Standards, than others.

As well as highlighting the need for the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, this paper also aims to provide an explanation for the pace of response in the adoption and adaptation of IFRSs in selected jurisdictions. It does so partly through a consideration of the impact of accounting and finance theories which have impacted the standard setting systems of certain jurisdictions.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting, finance theories, creative accounting, accounting reforms, transparency, financial reporting, disclosure, rules based, principles based approach

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Need for the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: Some Explanations for the Pace of Implementation (June 9, 2012). IGI Global Publications, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2080452 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2080452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
 Bushman , R Smith , A J
Transparency, Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance") FRBNY Economic Policy Review  Bushman Posted: 2001
R Levine , Loayza N Beck , T
Financial Intermediation and Growth: Causality and Causes
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 46 , p. 31 - 77 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Davide Lombardo , Marco Pagano
Legal Determinants of the Return on Equity
Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper No. 193; and University of Salerno Working Paper No. 24 Pages: 51 Posted: 29 Feb 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A  Umoren
Accounting Disclosures and Corporate Attributes Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,243
RANK
475,660
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies