Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS Whistleblower Program: Making Money the Old Fashioned Way!

Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, April-May 2012, page 21

9 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2012

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

The IRS Whistleblower Office processes financial awards to people who provide information about the tax indiscretions of others. It can be lucrative for the informant and greatly enhance the ability of the IRS to pinpoint tax noncompliance without having to unnecessarily utilize limited tax enforcement resources. The IRS may pay awards to people who provide specific and credible information to the IRS if the information results in the collection of taxes, penalties, interest or other amounts from the noncompliant taxpayer. If the IRS uses information provided by the whistleblower, based on recently finalized Treasury Regulations the whistleblower can receive up to 30 percent of the additional tax, penalty and other amounts collected or refund denied!

There are currently two basis types of whistleblower awards. Pursuant to Code §7623(b), if the taxes, penalties, interest and other amounts in dispute exceed $2 million, and a few other qualifications are met, the IRS will pay 15 percent to 30 percent of the amount collected. If the noncompliant taxpayer is an individual, their annual gross income must exceed $200,000. There is no limit on the dollar amount of the award. A reduced award amount of up to 10% is available in cases based principally on disclosure of specific allegations resulting from: (i) judicial or administrative hearings, (ii) from a governmental report, hearing, audit or investigation, or (iii) from the news media. The award is reduced if the whistleblower “planned and initiated” the non-compliance and the award is to be denied if the whistleblower is convicted of criminal conduct arising from their role in planning and initiating the non-compliance. Awards are subject to appeal to the U.S. Tax Court.

If the thresholds in Code §7623(b) are not satisfied, Code §7623(a) authorizes, but does not require, the IRS to pay for information relating to violations of the internal revenue law that result in recovery of tax. The maximum award is 15 percent of up to $10 million. In addition, these awards are discretionary and the whistleblower cannot dispute the outcome of the claim in Tax Court.

Keywords: IRS, whistleblower, whistle blower, reward, award, tax, penalty, tax claim, informant, Code § 7623

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., The IRS Whistleblower Program: Making Money the Old Fashioned Way! (May 1, 2012). Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, April-May 2012, page 21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2081999
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A N See , Act , Amend , Laws , To , For Other , Ch Purposes
473 (1867), authorizing the commissioner of internal revenue to pay amounts "deemed necessary for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons guilty of violating the internal revenue laws
Stat , volume 169
Code Sec , volume 7623 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Code Sec , volume 7623 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Code Sec , volume 7623 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,447
RANK
451,566
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies