Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 2012 IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Initiative

7 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2012

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: March 1, 2012

Abstract

On January 9, 2012, the IRS announced yet another offshore voluntary disclosure program (the 2012 OVDI) following on the success of the 2009 Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program (the 2009 OVDP) and the 2011 Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Initiative (the 2011 OVDI), which were announced many years after the 2003 Offshore Voluntary Compliance Initiative (OVCI) and the 2003 Offshore Credit Card Program (OCCP). Voluntary disclosure initiatives typically offer reduced penalties in exchange for taxpayers voluntarily coming into compliance before the IRS is aware of their prior tax indiscretions.

The 2012 OVDI is patterned after the 2011 OVDI but increases the maximum “FBAR-related” penalty from 25% to 27.5% of the highest account value at any time between 2003 and 2010. The 2012 OVDI does not have a stated expiration date but can be terminated by the IRS at any time as to specific classes of taxpayers or as to all taxpayers. In all, the IRS has seen at least 33,000 voluntary disclosures from the 2009 and 2011 offshore initiatives. Since the 2011 program closed in September 2011, hundreds of taxpayers have come forward to make voluntary disclosures. Those who have come in since the 2011 program closed last year will be able to be treated under the provisions of the new 2012 OVDI.

Most individuals wrongly believe that prior tax indiscretions can somehow be routinely resolved in a purely civil manner, without a criminal investigation or prosecution. However, within the past few years, at least 40 U.S. taxpayers and another 20 advisors (bankers, lawyers, consultants, etc.) have been criminally indicted for activities associated with U.S. persons holding undeclared interests in foreign financial accounts. Untold others are targets or subjects of ongoing federal criminal investigations.

If the initial taxpayer contact is from the IRS, a purely civil tax resolution is no longer certain and the likelihood of substantial civil penalties is significant. If the initial taxpayer contact regarding an undisclosed interest in a foreign financial account is from the Department of Justice, a purely civil tax resolution is anything but certain and is perhaps unlikely. Actions designed to avoid detection by the government will surely increase the potential for criminal prosecution.

The government is to be highly commended for its ongoing enforcement efforts which are destroying the ability of a U.S. taxpayer to maintain an undisclosed, “secret” foreign financial account. Foreign account information is flowing into the government through the development of relationships with corresponding taxing agencies in other countries; treaty based information exchanges; use of the civil summons process seeking identification of account holders in foreign institutions operating within the jurisdiction of the United States; indictments of foreign institutions and their bankers operating within the jurisdiction of the United States; receipt of information from whistleblowers and informants; cooperation from taxpayers, advisors, foreign banks and bankers who have been criminally prosecuted; the threat of future disclosures pursuant to the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and Foreign Financial Asset Reporting (Form 8938 and new IRC § 6038D); and data mining submissions received from participants in initiatives designed to encourage voluntary compliance.

Taxpayers having undisclosed interests in foreign financial accounts must consult competent tax professionals before deciding to participate in the 2012 OVDI. Many taxpayers will decide to submit a voluntary disclosure based on a personal desire to come into compliance now that they are aware of the FBAR and other foreign account reporting requirements. Others may simply want to move on with their lives. Some may decide to risk detection by the IRS and the imposition of substantial penalties, including the civil fraud penalty, numerous foreign information return penalties, and the potential risk of criminal prosecution. Although the 2012 OVDI penalty regime may seem overly harsh for many, the decision to participate should include an economic analysis of the taxpayers projected future earning power that could be generated from the funds held offshore. Participating taxpayers may well benefit by repatriating stagnant foreign funds into a recessionary domestic economy with a suffering real estate market and business opportunities lurking behind every corner.

Keywords: IRS, FBAR, OVDI, OVDP, voluntary disclosure, tax, foreign account, UBS, FATCA, offshore voluntary disclosure initiative, offshore voluntary disclosure program, foreign financial account, 5471, 3520, Shulman

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., The 2012 IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Initiative (March 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2082053 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2082053
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Swiss parliament changed their law
Id
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,619
RANK
427,404
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies