Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A FIRO-B Analysis of Social Skill Preferences Among Auditors

International Journal of Applied Decision Science, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2012

21 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2012

Philip H. Siegel

Florida Atlantic University

Khondkar E. Karim

University of Massachusetts Lowell

Jeffrey Lessard

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)

Date Written: June 16, 2012

Abstract

Abstract: This study investigates the relative significance of both the social interaction index (SII) and demographic variables by analysing their association to the likelihood in classifying an auditor as internal or external to the firm. This study uses the psychometric technique of the fundamental interpersonal relationship orientation-behavior (FIRO-B) to analyse and compare the social interaction preference of certified internal auditors (CIAs) working for US corporations and certified public accountants (CPAs) employed by public accounting firms. Surveys were developed using the FIRO-B instruments and sent to internal auditors from US corporations located in the western and southeastern sections of the USA. The results of the study show that the scores of the two groups are significantly different. Internal auditors reported lower social interaction preferences than the public accountants

Keywords: fundamental, interpersonal relationship, orientation-behaviour

JEL Classification: D23, G30, J10, J24, J44, M49

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Philip H. and Karim, Khondkar E. and Lessard, Jeffrey, A FIRO-B Analysis of Social Skill Preferences Among Auditors (June 16, 2012). International Journal of Applied Decision Science, Vol. 5, No. 1, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2085401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
K B Ang , C T Goh , H C Koh
Research notes: the impact of age on the job satisfaction of accountants
Personnel Review , volume 22 , issue 1 Posted: 1993
M Bayou , P Siegel , J Smith
Social skill differences among CPA firm personnel of different cultures: an exploratory study using the Firo-B'
International Journal of Business Research , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 15 - 25 Posted: 2006
C L Braddock
Penny wise, pound foolish: why investors would be foolish to pay a penny or a pound for the protections provided by Sarbanes-Oxley
Brigham Young University Law Review , volume 2006 , issue 1 , p. 175 - 210 Posted: 2006
R G Brody , D J Lowe
The new role of the internal auditor: implications for internal auditor objectivity
International Journal of Auditing , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 176 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,717
RANK
361,062
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies