Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Disconnected to Integrated Tax and Financial Systems: A Post-IFRS Evaluation of Evolution of Tax and Financial Reporting Relationships Based on the French Case

49 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2012

Odile Barbe

Burgundy School of Business/ESC DIJON

Laurent Didelot

Burgundy School of Business (Groupe ESC Dijon-Bourgogne)

Arvind Ashta

CEREN EA 7477 Burgundy School of Business - Université Bourgogne Franche-Comté

Date Written: July 1, 2011

Abstract

The globalization of financial markets has required the use of common reporting standards, notably the IFRSs. These are impacting the accounting systems of many countries. However, accounting systems are also often used for national tax reporting. This creates a divergence in the reporting needs which existing accounting systems are unable to meet. Previous studies have talked about linkages between accounting and taxation and find aspects of their systems identical, disconnected, accounting dominated or tax dominated, and that this mix changes over time, with a definite evolutionary model. This conceptual paper, grounded in French empirics, examines whether since the new IFRSs, the existing theoretical evolutionary model is adequate, and finds that it is not. It then proposes an alternative integrated accounting system to satisfy simultaneously the financial and tax reporting requirements.

Keywords: Accounting, IFRS, Tax, Taxation, Financial reporting, France

JEL Classification: M4, E62, H25, H32, K34

Suggested Citation:

Barbe, Odile and Didelot, Laurent and Ashta, Arvind, From Disconnected to Integrated Tax and Financial Systems: A Post-IFRS Evaluation of Evolution of Tax and Financial Reporting Relationships Based on the French Case (July 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2085305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2085305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
T R Archibald
The Return to Straight-Line Depreciation: An Analysis of a Change in Accounting Method
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 164 - 180 Posted: 1967
Crossref
O Barbe-Dandon , L Didelot
Pour Une Nouvelle Approche Des Relations Entre La Comptabilité et La Fiscalité
Revue Française de Comptabilité , volume 408 , p. 30 - 35 Posted: 2008
B Barlev , J R Haddad
Harmonization, Comparability, and Fair Value Accounting
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 509 Posted: 2007
Crossref
M E Barth , K Schipper
Financial Reporting Transparency. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 190 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,113
RANK
390,908
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies