Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is an Input-Taxed Supply of Used Residential Premises?

Tax Specialist, Vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 138, 2010

8 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2012

Christine Peacock

Federation University Australia

Date Written: February 1, 2010

Abstract

The sale of used residential premises is treated as an input‑taxed supply in Australia, under the A New Tax System (Goods and Services) Act 1999 (Cth) (GST Act). This means that no goods and services tax (GST) is charged on the sale of used residential premises, and the purchaser is not entitled to an input tax credit. The treatment of the sale of used residential premises as input‑taxed, however, is not simple. One predominant reason for this is that what is regarded as an input‑taxed supply of residential premises is not clear. In this paper, Christine Peacock sets out to explain how it can be clarified what an input‑taxed supply of used residential premises is in Australia, and therefore how the proper GST treatment of property can be made simpler to understand.

Keywords: GST, input tax, input-taxed supply, input-taxed credit, residential premises

JEL Classification: H24, H71, K34

Suggested Citation:

Peacock, Christine, What is an Input-Taxed Supply of Used Residential Premises? (February 1, 2010). Tax Specialist, Vol. 13, No. 3, pp. 138, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2086010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,617
RANK
812,770
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies