Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Political Economy of Tax Enforcement: A Look at the IRS from 1978-2010

41 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2012 Last revised: 21 Jul 2015

Sutirtha Bagchi

Villanova University - School of Business - Economics

Date Written: March 12, 2015

Abstract

This paper looks at whether political ideology matters for enforcement of the nation’s tax laws. An analysis of the resources available to the IRS suggests that the party affiliation of the President makes no difference to the overall level of IRS resources. However, there are significant increases in the share of the IRS budget devoted to detecting tax fraud and the number of IRS employees devoted to criminal investigation under Democratic administrations. Audit probabilities for corporations are also significantly higher under Democratic administrations. This increase in audit probability raises the effective tax rate for corporations by about three percent.

Keywords: Tax enforcement, Tax compliance, IRS, Corporate audits

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Bagchi, Sutirtha, The Political Economy of Tax Enforcement: A Look at the IRS from 1978-2010 (March 12, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2091796 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2091796
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
IRS budget normalized by non-defense federal expenses Posted: 1978
Crossref
IRS budget as a share of non-defense federal expenses (in percent) Posted: 2002
Year IRS budget normalized by non-defense federal expenses Posted: 1978
Source: Author analysis based on IRS Data Books Figure 2: IRS workforce Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
215
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,978
RANK
324,400
4 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies