Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law Issues

THE LEAKY BUILDINGS CRISIS, 2011

16 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2012 Last revised: 27 Jun 2012

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 15, 2011

Abstract

In New Zealand alone there are 42000 building structures that are caught up in this problem. The economic cost is estimated at $11.3 billion. This chapter looks at the tax issues associated with New Zealand's leaky buildng crisis focusing in particular on the deductions available for repairs and maintenance. It therefore reviews the capital revenue distinction in the context of repairs being made to a defective design or structure.

Keywords: repairs and maintenance, deductions in respect of leaky buildings, capital and revenue

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Tax Law Issues (December 15, 2011). THE LEAKY BUILDINGS CRISIS, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2093874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Auckland Gas Co Ltd v Commissioner
The performance of gas delivery and the protection from leakage as a result of the use of polyethylene pipe was not substantial enough in Transco
Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Western Suburbs Cinemas Ltd , p. 86 - 102 Posted: 1952
Crossref
Conn
Inspector of Taxes) v Robins Bros Limited , p. 43 - 266 Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,371
RANK
420,621
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies