Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Evidence on Charitable Gift Restrictions

Applied Economics Letters, Vol. 20, No. 17, 2013

30 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2012 Last revised: 8 Dec 2016

Jeremy P. Thornton

Samford University - Brock School of Business

Sara Helms McCarty

Samford University

Brian Scott

Washington College - Department of Economics

Date Written: June 26, 2012

Abstract

Gift restrictions are a common tool used by donors to ensure charitable intent. Due to increased monitoring costs and the loss of flexibility, gift restrictions are costly to the recipient nonprofit. Using an economic experiment, we study the impact of offering donors the option to restrict their charitable gift. Our primary finding demonstrates that allowing the option to restrict a charitable gift increases the average gift size, whether or not the donor chooses to exercise that option. This result implies that restricted gifts are both an important tool for increasing donations and may be less costly to the nonprofit than originally thought. We further demonstrate that high levels of religious attendance are associated with an increased use of gift restrictions and an increased responsiveness to those restrictions.

Keywords: Charitable giving, gift restrictions, experiment, donor behavior

JEL Classification: C91, D64

Suggested Citation:

Thornton, Jeremy P. and McCarty, Sara Helms and Scott, Brian, New Evidence on Charitable Gift Restrictions (June 26, 2012). Applied Economics Letters, Vol. 20, No. 17, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2093479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2093479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
L Anderson , J Mellor , J Milyo
Social Capital and Contributions in a Public Goods Experiment
American Economic Review , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 373 - 376 Posted: 2004
Crossref
L Anderson , J Mellor , J Milyo
Did the Devil Make them Do It? The Effects of Religions in Public Goods and Trust Games
Kyklos , volume 63 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 175 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A C Brooks
Religious Faith and Charitable Giving
Policy Review , p. 39 - 50 Posted: 2003
C Eckel , P Grossman
Giving to Secular Causes by the Religious and Nonreligious: An Experimental Test of the Responsiveness of Giving to Subsidies. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 33 , p. 271 - 289 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,513
RANK
649,413
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Toward a Theory of Charitable Fundraising

By James Andreoni

Toward an Understanding of the Economics of Charity: Evidence from a Field Experiment

By Craig E. Landry, Andreas Lange, ...

What's Psychology Worth? A Field Experiment in the Consumer Credit Market

By Marianne Bertrand, Dean S. Karlan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies