Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Due Diligence in Law and Ethics: The Ponzi 'Feeder Fund' Cases

Review of Business & Finance Case Studies, v . 3 (1) p. 1-12, 2012

12 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2013

Albert D. Spalding

Wayne State University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Financial accounting is an information conveyance process. When financial auditors issue an opinion in regard to financial statements, the auditors are providing assurance that those financial statements fairly represent the entity, and are prepared in accordance with the relevant standards. If there is a problem with the financial statements for which an unqualified audit opinion has been issued, the auditors may be questioned in regard to their compliance with professional technical and ethical standards that require competency, honesty, and full disclosure. These questions may be asked by the auditors’ professional organizations, such as the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), by government regulators who authorize the performance of auditing services, and by the judges and juries of the judicial system. This paper considers how the judiciary, in particular, takes into account auditors’ technical and ethical standards when auditors are sued for professional negligence and negligent misrepresentation. This investigation is done within the context of the recent lawsuits against auditors of “feeder funds” that invested with Ponzi scam artists such as Bernard Madoff. This paper concludes that the auditing profession has a “teachable moment” in the wake of the feeder fund failures, and should not overlook this opportunity to upgrade its ethical standards.

Keywords: Auditing, financial disclosure, due diligence, negligent misrepresentation, accountants’

JEL Classification: K23, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Spalding, Albert D., Auditing Due Diligence in Law and Ethics: The Ponzi 'Feeder Fund' Cases (2012). Review of Business & Finance Case Studies, v . 3 (1) p. 1-12, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2094684
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Code of Professional Conduct
AICPA Posted: 2010
Guide for Complying with Rules 102-505
AICPA Posted: 2008
Statement on auditing standard No. 99: Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
AICPA Posted: 2002
Anwar V. Fairfield , Ltd Greenwich
Posted: 2010-10-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
463
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,977
RANK
142,302
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Society: Courts eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies