Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Relevance of Financial Reporting on the Warsaw Stock Exchange

Warsaw School of Economics Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 1-12

14 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2012

Monika Kubik-Kwiatkowska

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Date Written: January 1, 2012

Abstract

The paper is associated with value relevance research, investigating whether information from financial reports is reflected in the value of listed companies. The study includes annual reports of 440 companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange in Poland in the years from 2000 to 2010. Models describing the relationship between information from financial reports and a measure of stock prices are based, in part, on a factor analysis. Validation of models on the holdout sample confirmed their effectiveness. The results show that the value relevance models may be one of the tools in building investment strategies.

Keywords: value relevance, company valuation, principal component analysis, factor analysis, capital markets, investment strategy, Poland, Eastern Europe

Suggested Citation:

Kubik-Kwiatkowska, Monika, Value Relevance of Financial Reporting on the Warsaw Stock Exchange (January 1, 2012). Warsaw School of Economics Department of Applied Econometrics Working Paper No. 1-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2096114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2096114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
J S Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental Analysis, Future Earnings, and Stock Prices , volume 35 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M Ammann , D Oesch , M Schmid
Corporate governance and firm value: International evidence
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 18 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An Empirical Evaluation of Accounting Income Numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 177 Posted: 1968
Crossref
W H Beaver
Perspectives on recent capital market research , volume 77 , p. 453 - 74 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,751
RANK
370,049
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accrual Reliability, Earnings Persistence and Stock Prices

By Scott A. Richardson, Richard G. Sloan, ...

Accrued Earnings and Growth: Implications for Earnings Persistence and Market Mispricing

By Patricia M. Fairfield, Scott Whisenant, ...

Insider Trading, Earnings Quality, and Accrual Mispricing

By Mark E. Vargus and Messod D. Beneish

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies