Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Expenditure Salience

7th Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Paper

29 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2012 Last revised: 21 Aug 2012

Jacob Goldin

Stanford Law School

Yair Listokin

Yale Law School

Date Written: July 2, 2012

Abstract

We provide survey evidence regarding taxpayer perceptions of two important tax expenditures — the charitable contribution deduction (CD) and the home mortgage interest deduction (HMID). We find that taxpayers have a flawed understanding of both programs. Taxpayers underestimate their eligibility for tax benefits for giving charitable gifts. Conditional on being eligible for CD, taxpayers also underestimate the size of the tax benefits. For the HMID, there are many eligible taxpayers who do not believe they receive a benefit, and many ineligible taxpayers who falsely believe they receive one. Conditional on qualifying for HMID, taxpayers underestimate the size of the tax benefits. Errors are prevalent even in the highest income categories. The results cast doubt on conventional understandings of the elasticity of charitable giving and home purchasing to tax expenditures. Moreover, the results suggest that even salient tax expenditures may be a particularly flawed means of subsidizing desirable behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Goldin, Jacob and Listokin, Yair, Tax Expenditure Salience (July 2, 2012). 7th Annual Conference on Empirical Legal Studies Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2097836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2097836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
James Andreoni
Handbook on the Economics of Giving, Reciprocity, and Altruism , volume 2 , p. 1201 - 1269 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Gerald Auten , Holger Sieg , Charles Clotfelter
Charitable Giving, Income and Taxes: An Analysis of Panel Data
‖ American Economic Review , volume 92 , p. 371 - 82 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Jon Bakija , Bradley Heim
How Does Charitable Giving Respond to Incentives and Income? New Estimates from Panel Data
National Tax Journal , volume 64 , issue 2 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Kevin Barrett , Anya Mcguirk , Richard Steinberg
Further Evidence on the Dynamic Impact of Taxes on Charitable Giving
National Tax Journal , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 321 - 334 Posted: 1997
Load more
1 Citations
Benito Arruñada
The Impact of Experience on How We Perceive the Rule of Law
Journal of Institutional Economics, 2020, 16(3), 251–69, · 40 Pages · Posted: 30 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 6 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 148
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,775
RANK
228,448
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Hidden Limits of the Charitable Deduction: An Introduction to Hypersalience

By Lilian V. Faulhaber

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies