Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Campaign Signs and the Collection Plate - Never the Twain Shall Meet?

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 1, No. 35, 2003-2004

51 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2012

Ann M. Murphy

Gonzaga University - School of Law

Date Written: Fall 2003

Abstract

Churches and other houses of worship have been unable to both maintain their tax-exempt status and engage in political activity ever since then-Senator Lyndon Baines Johnson proposed an amendment to Congress back in 1954. His amendment was adopted verbatim without hearings or testimony. Since that time, federal legislators have attempted time and again to lift this ban. Should churches and other houses of worship be allowed to participate in politics? This article explores this topic and the author determines that church and other houses of worship political activity is unnecessary, will have unintended consequences, and will be impossible to monitor.

Keywords: tax-exempt status, churches, houses of worship, political activity

Suggested Citation:

Murphy, Ann M., Campaign Signs and the Collection Plate - Never the Twain Shall Meet? (Fall 2003). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 1, No. 35, 2003-2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2097652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Representative Herger was a Republican from California. See Biographical Directory of the Posted: 2003-11-06
Cong , Rec
, p. 6912 - 6913 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Houses of Worship Political Speech Protection Act, H.R. 2357, 107th Cong Posted: 2001
I R C
, volume 501
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
RANK
682,707
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Social & Political Philosophy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies