Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bringing Equal Protection out of the Tax Closet

CONTROVERSIES IN EQUAL PROTECTION IN AMERICA, (Anne Richardson Oakes ed., Ashgate Publishing) 2012

U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper

Posted: 8 Jul 2012 Last revised: 13 Oct 2012

Anthony C. Infanti

University of Pittsburgh - School of Law

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

Tax is an area in which constitutional arguments are notoriously difficult to win. With respect to equal protection, courts generally defer to the legislature’s classification of taxpayers because tax is viewed as a form of “economic” legislation. Thus, so long as the legislature refrains from blatantly classifying taxpayers on a suspect basis — for example, on the basis of race or gender — the tax laws are thought to be nearly immune from attack on equal protection grounds.

By viewing taxpayers as nothing more than the sum of their financial transactions, this economic lens works in tandem with general notions of tax equity to sanitize tax policy discussions. In effect, this economic lens screens out difficult discussions of invidious discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation in the tax laws. But this economic lens does not eliminate concerns about equal protection in the tax laws; rather, it relegates them to the invisibility of the tax closet.

To bring equal protection out of the tax closet, we must recognize that, even absent blatant discrimination, the Internal Revenue Code can have a disparate impact on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation. If any area of the law should be open to disparate impact analysis, it should be tax law. In tax, the idea that substance should control over form — that is, the notion that what really happens is more important than what appears to be happening — is pervasive, pervasive enough to perhaps shift equal protection analysis in other areas of the law, too.

Keywords: tax, equal protection, constitution, discrimination, race, gender, sexual orientation, closet, economic

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Infanti, Anthony C., Bringing Equal Protection out of the Tax Closet (July 1, 2012). CONTROVERSIES IN EQUAL PROTECTION IN AMERICA, (Anne Richardson Oakes ed., Ashgate Publishing) 2012, U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2101833
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
970
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies