Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gift Taxes, Valuation, and the Need for Quarterly Information Returns

Tax Notes, Vol. 136, No. 7, 2012

4 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2012

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: August 13, 2012

Abstract

Gifts of tangible personal property and closely-held business interests typically are made without a paper trail (e.g., cancelled check or deed recording). Because gift tax returns are not due until April 15 of the calendar year following the transfer, a non-compliant taxpayer can game the system by taking a “wait and see” approach. For example, if a taxpayer makes a gift of valuable gold ring on January 1, and by December 31 the value of gold significantly declines to an all-time low, a taxpayer might choose to report the gift as occurring on the latter date. Similarly, if a taxpayer makes a gift of privately-held stock to a grantor retained annuity trust on January 1, and, likewise, the value of that stock declines to an all-time low by December 31, the taxpayer might claim that the gift never happened.

Professors Soled and Crawford propose reviving a quarterly gift tax return filing system applicable to all taxpayers whose aggregate taxable gifts equal or exceed $100,000 during a calendar quarter. Such a system would increase both compliance and revenue.

Keywords: gift tax, gifts, tax returns, closely held business interests, small business, tax compliance

JEL Classification: K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay and Crawford, Bridget J., Gift Taxes, Valuation, and the Need for Quarterly Information Returns (August 13, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 136, No. 7, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2101142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
E G See , Jeremiah Coder
Doc 2011-6401, or 2011 TNT 60-2. The IRS's filing in the Eastern District of California in late 2010 revealed that the Service is making a ''compliance initiative'' search for unreported taxable gifts of real estate. The IRS estimated high levels of noncompliance in jurisdictions such as Ohio (100 percent)
Tax Notes , volume 18 Posted: 2011-04-04
See Arden Dale
IRS Scrutinizes Gifts of Real Estate
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2011-05-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,441
RANK
538,270
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies