Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Problem with Tax: Planning, Avoidance or Evasion?

16 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2012

Sankha Nath Bandyopadhyay

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 8, 2012

Abstract

The recent verdict by Supreme Court on Vodafone case generates fresh debates on whether India needs to review her existing legal provisions particularly with respect to offshore tax laws. In this context, formal treatment and clear demarcations between tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax planning practices are imperative. The Standing Committee on Finance in its 49th Report on Direct Taxes Code bill, 2010 (submitted to Parliament on 9th march, 2012) recommended Controlled Foreign Corporations (CFC) rules, Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) along with General Anti Avoidance Rule (GAAR) provision to replace the Income Tax Act, 1961 as per the International Taxation Standard and also in line with the recent Chinese Corporate Income Tax (CIT) Law introduced in 2008 to deal with offshore transactions via holding companies. Whereas introduction of GAAR is essential given the limited applications of a specific or targeted anti avoidance rule, the Committee also acknowledges the need for an appropriate Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) as GAAR might result in a disproportionate discretionary power for the Income tax authority. The appropriate application of GAAR provision assumes a crucial role, in particular with countries lacking any Limitations of Benefit (LOB) clause (e.g. Mauritius) with India. Before entering into litigation, it might be beneficial to settle tax disputes through a bilateral negotiation in the form of Mutual Agreement Procedure (MAP), where tax authorities of the respective countries negotiate to settle disputes in a cordial manner.

Keywords: tax evasion, tax avoidance, General Anti Avoidance Rule, Limitations of Benefit

JEL Classification: Y5, Y50, Z1

Suggested Citation:

Bandyopadhyay, Sankha Nath, The Problem with Tax: Planning, Avoidance or Evasion? (July 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2102282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2102282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Department of Revenue
Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Posted: 2010-06
OECD's project on Harmful Tax Practices: Update on Progress In Member Countries Posted: 2006
Crossref
Rahul Garg , Kaushik Mukerjee
Removing the fences: Looking through GAAR" PricewaterhouseCoopers(PwC)White Paper Posted: 2012-02
Sandmo Agnar
The Theory of Tax Evasion: A Retrospective View
Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration , p. 5 - 6 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,864
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,044
RANK
20,827
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies