Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Working Capital Management and Firm Profitability: Manufacturing Sector of Pakistan

16 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2012

Muhammad Sial

COMSATS University Islamabad

Aqsa Chaudhry

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 13, 2012

Abstract

The goal of the study is to measure the relationship between working capital management and firm profitability in the manufacturing sector of Pakistan. We have selected the sample of 100 Pakistani manufacturing listed companies on Karachi Stock Exchange for the time period of 10 year from 1999-2008. The data used in this study was acquired from Karachi Stock Exchange (K.S.E) and from the Balance Sheet Analysis of Joint Stock Companies by State Bank of Pakistan. We have studied the effect of different variables of working capital management including the Average collection period, Inventory turnover in days, Average payment period and cash conversion cycle. Current ratio, Size and debt ratio used as control variables. Pearson Correlation and Regression Analysis (Ordinary Least Square and Fixed Effect Model) are used.

The results show that there is a strong negative relationship between variables of the working capital management and profitability of the firm. It means that as the cash conversion cycle increases it will lead to decreasing profitability of the firm, and managers can create a positive value for the shareholders by reducing the cash conversion cycle to a possible minimum level. We find that there is a significant negative relationship between liquidity and profitability. We also find that there is a positive relationship between size of the firm and its profitability. There is also a significant negative relationship between debt used by the firm and its profitability.

The sample size consisting of 100 manufacturing companies is relatively small as compared to 650 companies listed on the Karachi Stock Exchange as on August 2009 which slightly limits the generalizability of the findings. To the best of the researcher’s knowledge this study is a unique study of its kind in the Non-Financial Sector that studies the impact of working capital management on firm profitability of manufacturing sector.

Keywords: Working Capital Management, Karachi Stock Exchange, Firm Profitability

Suggested Citation:

Sial, Muhammad and Chaudhry, Aqsa, Relationship between Working Capital Management and Firm Profitability: Manufacturing Sector of Pakistan (July 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2105638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2105638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Vladislav Spitsin , Darko Vukovic , Sergey Anokhin , Lubov Spitsina
Company performance and optimal capital structure: evidence of transition economy (Russia)
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 313 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Kashfia Haque Neelom , Suzona Asad
Working Capital Management and Profitability of Manufacturing Sector of Bangladesh: A Causal Relationship
American Journal of Trade and Policy , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 47 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,061
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,626
RANK
17,738
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies