Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation Without Representation: The Illegal IRS Rule to Expand Tax Credits Under the PPACA

Health Matrix: Journal of Law-Medicine, Forthcoming

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2012-27

79 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2012 Last revised: 29 Mar 2013

Jonathan H. Adler

William & Mary Law School; PERC - Property and Environment Research Center

Michael F. Cannon

Cato Institute

Date Written: July 16, 2012

Abstract

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) provides tax credits and subsidies for the purchase of qualifying health insurance plans on state-run insurance exchanges. Contrary to expectations, many states are refusing or otherwise failing to create such exchanges. An Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rule purports to extend these tax credits and subsidies to the purchase of health insurance in federal exchanges created in states without exchanges of their own. This rule lacks statutory authority. The text, structure, and history of the Act show that tax credits and subsidies are not available in federally run exchanges. The IRS rule is contrary to congressional intent and cannot be justified on other legal grounds. Because the granting of tax credits can trigger the imposition of fines on millions of individuals and employers, the IRS rule is likely to be challenged in court.

Keywords: health care, health insurance, Affordable Care Act, health insurance exchanges, tax credits, administrative law, Internal Revenue Service

JEL Classification: K32, K34

Suggested Citation:

Adler, Jonathan H. and Cannon, Michael F., Taxation Without Representation: The Illegal IRS Rule to Expand Tax Credits Under the PPACA (July 16, 2012). Health Matrix: Journal of Law-Medicine, Forthcoming, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2012-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2106789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
Politico , volume 7 Posted: 2010-01-09
Crossref
What Women Want: Equal Benefits for Equal Premiums: Full Comm. Hearing Before the S
Healthcare Reform: Hearing Before the S. Comm. on Health , volume 8 Posted: 2009
Labor & Pensions
Affordable Health Choices Act: Hearing Before the S. Comm. on Health, Educ Posted: 2009
Open Executive Session to Consider an Original Bill Providing for Health Care Reform: Hearing Before the S
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
61,165
RANK
2,529
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies