Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contribution Based Measurement of Human Asset for Strategic Decision Making Using HCIS

International Journal of Business and Management Studies, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 97-105, 2010

9 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012

Ajay Kumar Singh

Sri Sri University, on EOL from University of Delhi - Department of Commerce, Faculty of Commerce and Business, Delhi School of Economics

Nisha Gupta

Delhi School of Professional Studies and Research (DSPSR)

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The study has been undertaken to test the validity of the variables that contribute in the valuation of human asset using the Human Resource (HR) Valuation Model (Singh, 2002) conducted in three manufacturing companies in NCR on white collar employees. The result indicates that the cost incurred on employees cannot be used as a surrogate measure of their value. The various Organisational and Environmental factors relating to human resource have an impact on Organisation’s human resource value. Factor Analysis, a multivariate technique has been used that shows relative importance of all variables used in the model. Thus, there are various variables (i.e. qualitative variables that include behavioral and contribution based variables and quantitative variables) which are instrumental in making the contribution by an individual in the organization upon which the value of an individual is determined. These findings have implications for strategic decision making relating to human asset.

Keywords: Human Asset, Human Resource Accounting Model, Contribution, Strategic Decision making

JEL Classification: L29

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Ajay Kumar and Gupta, Nisha, Contribution Based Measurement of Human Asset for Strategic Decision Making Using HCIS (2010). International Journal of Business and Management Studies, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 97-105, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111442
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,769
RANK
375,525
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies