Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity and Debt Issuance by Firms Violating GAAP

Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012

Katsiaryna Bardos

Fairfield University

Nataliya S. Zaiats

Suffolk University - Sawyer School of Management

Date Written: July 17, 2011

Abstract

We examine security issuance in restated periods by firms that misreport financial statements and find that only a small percent of such firms issues securities in the restated period. Investors are misled by mistakes made by firms issuing equity more so than other restating firms at the initial announcement of misreported earnings, but are not misled by mistakes made by debt-issuing firms. Equity-issuing firms that manage earnings to beat analyst expectations experience abnormally high returns in the restated period prior to security issuance. Firms that restated more reports and have higher pre-mistake returns are more likely to issue equity. High leverage, firm size and number of restated periods are positively associated with the likelihood of debt issuance by restating firms.

Suggested Citation:

Bardos, Katsiaryna and Zaiats, Nataliya S., Equity and Debt Issuance by Firms Violating GAAP (July 17, 2011). Accounting and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
L Shivakumar
Do firms mislead investors by overstating earnings before seasoned equity offerings?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 339 - 371 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A P Sweeney
Debt Covenant Violations and Manager's Accounting Responses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , p. 281 - 308 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S Teoh , I Welch , T Wong
Earnings management and the subsequent market performance of initial public offerings
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , p. 1935 - 1974 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Teoh , I Welch , T Wong
Earnings management and the long run underperformance of seasoned equity offerings
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 50 , p. 53 - 100 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
792,195
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies