Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Saga of State ‘Amazon’ Laws: Reflections on the Colorado Decision

State Tax Notes, Vol. 65, No. 3, 2012

UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2111433

6 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2012 Last revised: 2 Dec 2014

David Gamage

University of Missouri School of Law

Darien Shanske

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: July 17, 2012

Abstract

We analyze the Colorado district court’s decision in Direct Marketing Association v. Huber – a decision that permanently enjoined Colorado’s "Amazon" law. Had it not been enjoined, the Colorado law would have mandated information reporting by remote e-commerce vendors so that Colorado could levy its sales and use tax on the e-commerce purchases made by Colorado residents. We evaluate the applicability of the Tax (Anti-)Injunction Act and whether the Colorado statute and regulations should be reviewed as a tax or as a regulation. We also suggest alternative approaches that state legislatures might use in order to levy taxes on remote e-commerce transactions.

(Subsequent to the publication of this essay, the 10th Circuit reversed the Colorado district court’s opinion based on similar arguments to those forwarded in this essay. The U.S. Supreme Court is now scheduled to hear this dispute, in the case of Direct Marketing Association v. Brohl.)

Keywords: tax, e-commerce, Amazon laws, injunction act, colorado, huber

Suggested Citation:

Gamage, David and Shanske, Darien, The Saga of State ‘Amazon’ Laws: Reflections on the Colorado Decision (July 17, 2012). State Tax Notes, Vol. 65, No. 3, 2012, UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2111433, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2111433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,154
RANK
162,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of California, Berkeley School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies