Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Inventory Costing Convergence under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards

Journal of International Business Research, 2012, Forthcoming

22 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2012

Casey Reineking

Murray State University

Don H. Chamberlain

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Holly R. Rudolph

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

Accounting principles in the United States are converging toward international standards. If convergence continues, and there are proponents and detractors, then the U.S. system of accounting, called Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), will eventually be replaced by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Convergence has profound implications for publicly traded companies and their many stakeholders such as investors, lenders, government agencies, and employees. A key issue facing accounting standard-setters is the treatment of inventory costing, an area in which GAAP and IFRS differ. This study addresses three research questions: What is the past and current usage of different inventory costing methods?, How important is inventory on corporate financial reports?, and What will be the impact on corporate financial reporting, specifically regarding inventory costing, if IFRS replaces GAAP? Findings show that a change from GAAP to IFRS will have a major impact on inventory costing and, as a result, on corporate financial reporting overall.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, inventory costing, GAAP

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Reineking, Casey and Chamberlain, Don H. and Rudolph, Holly R. and Smith, Murphy, An Examination of Inventory Costing Convergence under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards. Journal of International Business Research, 2012, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2112558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Aicpa
Accounting Trends and Techniques
Aicpa
AICPA Recommends SEC Allow Optional Adoption of IFRS by U
Aicpa
History of the AICPA Posted: 2011-08-30
J Barry , K Kuykendall , T Mcclements
The Uncertain Future of LIFO Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,548
RANK
14,518
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies