Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Paying the IRS Whistleblower: A Critical Analysis of Collected Proceeds

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, 2012

53 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2012

Karie Davis-Nozemack

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Sarah Webber

University of Dayton

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 1, 2012

Abstract

Congressional changes to the IRS Whistleblower Program were intended to induce more participation in the program by allowing larger incentives and greater certainty that whistleblowers would be paid. Since the Program was amended, tax whistleblower tips have increased 76 percent and revenue collected due to whistleblowers has increased 79 percent. Despite a rise in tips and revenue collected, whistleblower payments have not increased. In fact, the number of tax whistleblower awards paid has decreased 44 percent. We hypothesize that this trend is due to the administration of the program but also to the interpretation of “collected proceeds.” Collected proceeds are tax revenues collected due to a specific whistleblower tip and comprise the pool of money from which a tax whistleblower award is made. While scholarship exists examining the Whistleblower Program amendments and their effects, no scholar has critically examined the crux of the Whistleblower Program: what should constitute collected proceeds.

This article offers critical analysis of both the Service’s interpretation of “collected proceeds” as well as proposals advanced by whistleblower advocates. Neither the IRS nor the whistleblower advocates’ interpretations offer a properly inclusive view of collected proceeds. We suggest an alternative view of collected proceeds that balances the need for an attainable incentive, administrable program, and federal revenue protection. Failing to achieve any one of these needs risks the Whistleblower Program’s viability. We suggest a view of collected proceeds that builds upon the Program’s successes and broadens its scope, which should lead to increased federal revenue.

Part One of this paper discusses the statutory changes to the Whistleblower Program, including the public policy behind the amendment as well as the manner in which the new IRS Whistleblower Office has administered the law. Part Two examines the Service’s interpretation of the basis of whistleblower payments, the “proceeds of amounts collected by reason of the information provided.” This Part uses the prior and current IRS payment policy, statutory interpretation, the 2012 Final Treasury Regulation, as well as conflicts between Service guidance and the Internal Revenue Manual to conclude that the Service’s interpretation of “collected proceeds” is not sufficiently inclusive. Part Three uses similar critical analysis to view the whistleblower advocates’ proposed interpretation of “collected proceeds” and finds that it ignores the tax realities of many alleged underpayments. Part Three concludes that the whistleblower advocates’ proposals for collected proceeds are overly inclusive. Finally, in Part Four, the paper considers a more balanced approach to defining “collected proceeds.”

Keywords: tax, taxation, IRS, whistleblower, whistleblowing, collected proceeds

Suggested Citation:

Davis-Nozemack, Karie and Webber, Sarah, Paying the IRS Whistleblower: A Critical Analysis of Collected Proceeds (March 1, 2012). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Merriam Webster Dictionary
See Preamble to Treas. Reg , volume 301 , p. 7623 - 7624 Posted: 2012-02-21
Crossref
Section 7623(b) differs slightly in that it states that a whistleblower " shall . . . receive an award . . . of the collected proceeds . . . resulting from the action
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,331
RANK
202,849
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies