Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Better Way to Encourage Gifts of Conservation Easements

The Shelf Project, Vol. 136, No. p. 307, July 2012

8 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2012

Daniel I. Halperin

Harvard Law School

Date Written: July 16, 2012

Abstract

The author’s proposal would repeal the deduction for the appraised value of a conservation easement that is allowed by current law. Congress should consider replacing the subsidy with a program of direct grants or limited-budget tax credits administered by an expert agency. If the deduction is continued, eligible donees should be only large institutions with a large portfolio of easements and resources and motives to enforce the easement, there should be an excise tax on nonenforcement of the easement, and there should be another government agency other than the IRS involved in enforcement. The special higher allowances for the deduction of appreciated property allowed by current law should be repealed.

The proposal is offered as a part of the Shelf Project, a collaboration of tax professionals to develop proposals to raise revenue without a VAT or a rate increase. Shelf Project proposals raise revenue while making the tax system more efficient and reducing deadweight loss. Shelf projects follow the format of a congressional tax writing committee report in explaining current law, what is wrong with it, and how to fix it.

Suggested Citation:

Halperin, Daniel I., A Better Way to Encourage Gifts of Conservation Easements (July 16, 2012). The Shelf Project, Vol. 136, No. p. 307, July 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
See Land Trust Alliance, Land Trust Standards and Practices 8-9 , volume 12 Posted: 2004
These standards must be adopted as part of the alliance's accreditation process. See also Land Trust Alliance, ''Accreditation Requirements
Conservation and Easement Stewardship , volume 11
Land Trust Standards and Practices
Land Trust Alliance , volume 12 Posted: 2004
The liberalization of the deductions limit expired at the end of 2009 under section 170(b)(1)(E)(vi) but was extended through 2011 in the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, P.L. 111-312, section 723. Congress likely will be considering further extension of various ''extenders
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,387
RANK
370,049
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies