Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VATs in Federations and Common Markets

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2115616

36 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2012 Last revised: 6 Aug 2012

Richard M. Bird

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 5, 2012

Abstract

The most striking tax development of the last half century has been the worldwide rise of the VAT. Most countries now have national VATs. In addition, several large federal countries – Brazil, Canada, and India – also have regional (state or provincial) VATs that, like national VATs, are general consumption taxes administered in principle through a transaction-based credit-invoice approach. Although these three countries are very different, and each established such a tax for its own reasons, in different ways, and with varying degrees of success, on the whole these regional VATs appear to work. While the taxes in Brazil and India are by no means perfect, they appear to be less economically distorting than the taxes they replaced – gross receipts taxes in Brazil and pre-retail stage sales taxes in India – while being little or no more difficult to administer. The experience with better designed and administered regional VATs in Canada shows clearly that dual VATs can work well in a federal country. Canadian experience may offer some useful lessons for VATs in common markets like the European Union (EU).

Keywords: VAT, regional VAT, Brazil, India, Canada, European Union

JEL Classification: H25, H71

Suggested Citation:

Bird, Richard Miller, VATs in Federations and Common Markets (August 5, 2012). Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2115616, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2115616 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2115616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
E Ahmad
Financing Decentralized Expenditures: an International Comparison of Grants Posted: 1997
R T Ainsworth
Tackling VAT Fraud: Car Flipping and Computer Chips on a Carousel
Tax Notes International , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 267 - 280 Posted: 2007
M Arretche
The Veto Power of Sub-National Governments in Brazil: Political Institutions and Parliamentary Behavior in the Post-1988 Period
Brazilian Political Science Review , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 40 - 73 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J M Arroyo , J P Jimenez , C Mussi
Revenue Sharing: The Case of Brazil's ICMS, Serie macroeconomia del desarrollo 121, Economic Development Division
ECLAC Posted: 2012-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,266
RANK
493,078
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Impact on Investment of Replacing a Retail Sales Tax by a Value-Added Tax: Evidence from Canadian Experience

By Michael Smart and Richard M. Bird

The Economic Incidence of Replacing a Retail Sales Tax by a Value-Added Tax: Evidence from Canadian Experience

By Michael Smart and Richard M. Bird

The Gst Cut and Fiscal Imbalance

By Michael Smart and Richard M. Bird

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies