Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Taxation of Cross Border E-Commerce Income

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2012

56 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2012 Last revised: 4 Dec 2017

Rifat Azam

Reichman University - Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliyah - Harry Radziner School of Law

Date Written: July 25, 2012

Abstract

Amazon sells tangibles, intangibles and services worldwide that totaled $34 Billion USD in 2010. At eBay.com more than 97 million active users globally meet to sell and buy online in total amount of $62 Billion USD in 2010. Global clicks at Google.com contributed substantially to its $10.5 Billion USD revenues in Q4 2011. In the year 2010 Americans spent around $173 billion USD shopping online. Global e-commerce turnover is expected to grow up to $963 Billion USD in 2013. These figures illustrate the importance of e-commerce in the global economy today and tomorrow. The taxation of e-commerce as well is very much important and difficult issue.

This article examines the taxation challenges of e-commerce and discusses the current responses at the academic level, national level and international level. This discussion concludes that the right answer to the challenges was not given so far and the need for a different response is essential in the age of e-commerce.

The article argues for the imposition of a global e-commerce tax on cross border e-commerce income and designs the details of the tax. Institutionally, this tax shall be levied and administered by a supra-national institution called the Global Tax Fund and the article sets a framework of the design of this new institution to be established by the countries in new international tax treaty. The proposal adds that the global e-commerce tax revenues shall be spent on funding global public goods, such as climate stability, and global communication infrastructures and so on.

A substantial normative work is done in the article to convince that the proposed tax is a good tax from tax policy point of view. The article makes the arguments that the global e-commerce tax to fund global public goods is legitimate, certain, efficient, fair and contributes to the finance of a genuine global need, ultimately concluding that the global e-commerce tax would be a desirable and plausible resolution of linked problems on both the income and the expenditure side of government functions.

Furthermore, the article responds to expected objections to the article's novel idea. It argues that supra-national taxation does not infringe tax theory. To the contrary, it goes hand by hand with the theory in the global era. As to state sovereignty objections, the article argues that sovereignty has changed and supranational regimes serve the new sovereignty.

This innovative article concludes by calling for thinking in open minds.

Keywords: taxation, e-commerce, globalization, global tax, global public goods, finance

Suggested Citation:

Azam, Rifat, Global Taxation of Cross Border E-Commerce Income (July 25, 2012). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 31, No. 4, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2117022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Okanga Ogbu Okanga
Intangibles and Transfer Pricing Regulation in Nigeria: An Exposition
33 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2020 · Downloads: 301
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,449
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,520
RANK
13,411
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies