Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Group Audit Oversight on Subsidiary Entity Audits and Reporting

44 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2012 Last revised: 29 Jan 2014

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 28, 2014

Abstract

International and U.S. accounting and auditing standard setters have focused considerable attention and rule making around group audits and in particular the reporting quality of subsidiary entities. We examine how membership in a consolidated group and the related group audit affects the quality of financial reporting of subsidiary entities. While regulators have expressed concern regarding the financial reporting quality of subsidiary entities based on inspection findings, we find that subsidiaries have, on average, higher financial reporting quality than non-consolidated entities. This effect is larger for subsidiaries with distinct management teams from the parent, lending support to the argument that higher auditor power increases financial reporting quality. Our results should inform standard setters, regulators, and practitioners as they consider how to improve the financial reporting and audit quality.

Keywords: Group Audits, Components, Subsidiary Entity Reporting Quality, Industry Specialization, Auditor Power

JEL Classification: M4, M41, E62, E60, G28, G30

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Wood, David A., The Effects of Group Audit Oversight on Subsidiary Entity Audits and Reporting (January 28, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2117889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2117889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Statements on Auditing Standards: Clarification and Recodification -AU-C Section 600 -Special Considerations -Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Components Auditors)
Statement on Auditing Standards Posted: 2011
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003-09
Crossref
M D Beneish
Detecting GAAP violation: Implications for assessing earnings management among firms with extreme financial performance
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 309 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M D Beneish
The detection of earnings manipulation
Financial Analysts Journal September/October , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
826
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,030
RANK
68,121
1 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies