Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing IFRS: A Case Study of the Czech Republic

Patricia Sucher & Irena Jindrichovska (2004) Implementing IFRS: A Case Study of the Czech Republic, Accounting in Europe, 1. 2004, 109–141.

54 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2012

Irena Jindrichovska

Anglo-American University Prague

Patricia Sucher

University of London - School of Management

Date Written: January 25, 2004

Abstract

This empirical paper presents a study of the implementation process for international financial reporting standards (IFRS) in one of the accession countries, the Czech Republic. Based upon a review of the legislation, institutional framework and context, and drawing upon recent interviews with Czech companies required to prepare IFRS accounts, auditors and institutional players in the Czech Republic, the paper highlights some of the key issues that are arising with the move to the implementation of IFRS for listed group companies and other enterprises in the Czech Republic.

The paper considers the issues that arise when implementing new accounting regulations, some of which are not new and have been well covered in the literature, but others of which are particular to the implementation of IFRS. The method of implementation, the scope of IFRS, particular issues with local accounting practice and IFRS, the issue of enforcement of compliance with IFRS and its relationship with audit, the link between IFRS and taxation and the provision of education and training are all considered. There is also a review of the state of preparedness of local group listed entities with respect to the implementation of IFRS.

There are many potentially rich areas for accounting research where the work could also inform the practice of IFRS accounting. The paper provides a contribution by highlighting how one country has moved to implement the requirement for group listed enterprises to prepare IFRS accounts and the issues that then arise for legislators, preparers and users.

Keywords: IFRS, Czech Republic, accounting

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Jindrichovska, Irena and Sucher, Patricia, Implementing IFRS: A Case Study of the Czech Republic (January 25, 2004). Patricia Sucher & Irena Jindrichovska (2004) Implementing IFRS: A Case Study of the Czech Republic, Accounting in Europe, 1. 2004, 109–141., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2117820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Act on Accounting Zákon č. 353/2001 Sb., o účetnictví
Act on Accounting Zákon č. 563/1991 Sb., o účetnictví Posted: 1991
Alexander D
A European true and fair view?
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 1993
Alexander D
Truer and Fairer
European Accounting Review , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 483 - 493 Posted: 1996
D Alexander
A benchmark for the adequacy of published financial statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 239 - 53 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
290
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,109
RANK
240,169
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies