Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Non-Medicalized Medical Deduction?: O’Donnabhain v. Commissioner & the I.R.S.’s Understanding of Transgender Medical Care

Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, Vol. 35, No. 487, 2012

28 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2012

Lauren Herman

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This Note will analyze the Tax Court decision in O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner, and raise questions about its implications. The issue before the court was in essence a medical question regarding the scope of the medical deduction, and the court followed the traditional course in transgender jurisprudence, relying on medical evidence and the diagnosis of a disease to permit O’Donnabhain’s deduction for her sex reassignment treatment. However, there is much debate within the transgender community about reliance on the medical model. Part I will provide a brief history of O’Donnabhain, her condition, the treatment she sought, and her struggle to defend her rights. Part II will explore in further detail the definitions and case law that formed the basis of the Tax Court’s decision. To conclude, Part III will explore how the Tax Court’s choices in statutory interpretation impact the transgender community and broader advocacy efforts. It will also raise the possibility that a future taxpayer could rely on the second prong of the definition of medical care for a deduction, thus expanding the legal recognition of transgender rights.

Keywords: transgender rights, medical deduction, I.R.S., tax code

Suggested Citation:

Herman, Lauren, A Non-Medicalized Medical Deduction?: O’Donnabhain v. Commissioner & the I.R.S.’s Understanding of Transgender Medical Care (2012). Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, Vol. 35, No. 487, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2119026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Petition to United States Tax Court, O'Donnabhain v. Comm'r, 134 T.C , volume 34 , p. 6402 - 6408 Posted: 2006-03-31
Donnabhain Tax Court Case: GID Qualifies as Medical Care, GLAD Posted: 2012-04-05
I R S
Action on Decision I.R.B , p. 2011 - 2058 Posted: 2011-11-21
O&apos;donnabhain
) (permitting a deduction for taxpayer's travel costs when he accompanied his son to obtain sex reassignment surgery). See also Susan L. Megaard, Scope of the Medical Expense Deduction Clarified and Broadened by New Tax Court Decision
See I.R.S. Letter Rul , volume 8321042 Posted: 1983-02-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,196
RANK
475,660
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies