Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Crime: The Application of Ethiopian Income Tax Laws to Incomes from Illegal Activities

17 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2012

Yosef Alemu Gebreegziabher

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 29, 2012

Abstract

One of the most important issues that have to be raised in relation to taxation of incomes is the taxation of incomes generated from illegal activities. Are they taxed according to the law? The writer has argued that incomes from illegal sources shall be taxed according to schedule C or alternatively it can also be taxed using schedule D. As a taxpayer these persons should be afforded the same tax benefit during declarations and in terms of deducting the deductible costs. However, in order to facilitate tax payment the tax authority has to make amendments in its declaration forms.

Keywords: Ethiopia, Tax, Income tax, schedules of taxpayers, gross income, taxable income, exempt income, deductible items, unlawful income, and declaration of income

Suggested Citation:

Gebreegziabher, Yosef Alemu, Taxing Crime: The Application of Ethiopian Income Tax Laws to Incomes from Illegal Activities (July 29, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2119466 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2119466
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,521
RANK
129,076
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies