Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Default Swaps and Insider Trading

Forthcoming in the Virginia Law & Business Review

91 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2012 Last revised: 24 Sep 2012

Douglas B. Levene

Peking University School of Transnational Law

Date Written: September 4, 2012

Abstract

In the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Congress clarified that the insider trading regime of Rule 10b-5 applies to trading in credit default swaps. In so doing, Congress implicitly assumed without analysis that the equities securities markets and the credit default swap market are the same and should be subject to the same rules.

This paper is the first to question that assumption and to consider whether as a normative matter credit default swaps should be subject to Rule 10b-5. Through a rigorous analysis of the differences between the two markets and the policies underlying the rules prohibiting insider trading in equity securities, it demonstrates that there would be significant public benefits from permitting insider trading in credit default swaps, including mitigating the serious problems of equity bubbles and overvaluation. Moreover, the reasons for prohibiting insider trading in the equities securities markets are not applicable to or apply with far less force to transactions in credit default swaps. Accordingly, this paper recommends that credit default swaps be excluded from the ambit of the insider trading rules.

Keywords: insider trading, CDS, credit default swap, securities

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Levene, Douglas B., Credit Default Swaps and Insider Trading (September 4, 2012). Forthcoming in the Virginia Law & Business Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2119448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2119448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Gilson &amp; Kraakman
); see also Lisa K. Meulbroek, An Empirical Analysis of Illegal Insider Trading
J. FIN , volume 1661 Posted: 1984
Stanislav Dogopolov
Insider Trading and the Bid-Ask Spread: A Critical Evaluation of Adverse Selection in Market Making
CAP. U. L. REV , volume 83 Posted: 2004
Joel Hasbrouck
Measuring the Information Content of Stock Trades
J. FIN , volume 46 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Gilson &amp; Kraakman
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
457
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,443
RANK
144,553
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Peking University School of Transnational Law (STL) Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies