Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross Border Tax Avoidance: Applying the 2003 OECD Commentary to Pre-2003 Treaties

British Tax Review, Issue 3, p. 307, 2012, 27 pages

28 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2012 Last revised: 11 Aug 2015

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

On January 28, 2003 changes were made to the Commentary on Article 1 which deals with the improper use of double tax conventions. Most countries, generally speaking, seem to accept that the general anti-avoidance rules will operate and can be reconciled with the provisions of their double tax treaties, when these treaties have been entered into after the changes which were made to the Commentary in 2003. This article looks at the issue of whether treaties concluded prior to 2003 should be read differently to those concluded after 2003 with respect to the application of general anti-avoidance rules to cross-border transactions. In order to answer this issue the following fundamental questions of international tax need to be addressed: 1. Can later Commentaries affect the interpretation of preceding treaties, and if so, in what circumstances? 2. Is the Commentary binding in a legal way or simply designed to assist the interpretation of a treaty? 3. Lastly, and more specifically, is the Commentary introduced in 2003 an example of a "clarifying change" (one that clarifies the existing Commentary, rather than substantially amending)? If it is the former then the Commentary may remain relevant in determining the nature of that important relationship between a domestic general anti-avoidance rule and its application to a double tax treaty entered into prior to 2003.

The conclusions reached in this article are that the Commentary is not legally binding although courts around the world recognise they are very important as an interpretive tool. Further, these courts have accepted that later Commentaries (Commentaries amended and promulgated after the conclusion of the treaty) can be of some assistance in the interpretation of a treaty provided they clarify or amplify the previous Commentary. After analysing the changes in the Commentary in 2003 the conclusion reached is that these changes were a clarifying change rather than a fundamental change suggesting that 2003 Commentary can be read and applied to treaties entered into prior to 2003.

Keywords: anti-avoidance rules, tax treaties, 2003 Commentary, Article 1, interpretation of tax treaties, use of Commentaries

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Cross Border Tax Avoidance: Applying the 2003 OECD Commentary to Pre-2003 Treaties (May 1, 2012). British Tax Review, Issue 3, p. 307, 2012, 27 pages, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2120834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Art
6 of the Convention on the OECD, above fn.76, sets out the procedures whereby members of the OECD make such binding decisions under Art , volume 5
Recommendations of the Organisation, made by Council in accordance with Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Convention, shall be submitted to the Members for consideration in order that they may, if they consider opportune, provide for their implementation
) r.18(b) which reads Posted: 2008-09
Council concerning the Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital Posted: 1997-10-23
Crossref
Recommendation of the Council)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
469
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,925
RANK
140,158
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies