Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Thin Capitalisation Rules and Treaties: Does the Ratio in the New Zealand Thin Capitalisation Rules Contravene New Zealand’s Tax Treaty Obligations?

New Zealand Business Law Quarterly, Vol. 18, No 4, pp. 307-332, 2012

32 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2012 Last revised: 17 Feb 2013

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 31, 2012

Abstract

This article examines the potential conflict between thin capitalization rules and the OECD Model article on non-discrimination using the New Zealand regime exempli gratia. It is discriminatory to impose a higher tax burden on an enterprise funded with foreign capital. Yet that is the basis for the New Zealand - and many other countries' - thin capitalization regimes. The OECD rationalize this conflict by agreeing that thin capitalization rules are effective against non-discrimination provisions in a treaty when they operate on an arm's-length basis.

A thin capitalization regime can therefore successfully prevent the transfer of profits in the guise of interest up to an arm's-length level. Beyond this arm's-length amount the thin capitalization rule is providing tax protectionism which is discriminatory. The application of the non-discrimination principles to the New Zealand thin capitalization rules will be of interest to other jurisdictions in the design of their thin capitalization regimes because they may be contemplating a similar approach. New Zealand makes use of two safe harbor fixed ratio formula in its thin capitalization rules: a 60 percent total debt to total assets calculation, and a ratio of 110 percent of worldwide debt to worldwide assets. Debt includes both related party and non-related party borrowing.

After revisiting the basis upon which these tests were formulated, and categorizing the various types of non-discrimination approach, this article concludes that: these fixed ratios offend the arm's-length principle in some circumstances, because of their low rates and application to total debt; and New Zealand entities which are controlled by shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions will be protected under the applicable double tax treaty from the application of the New Zealand thin capitalization rules.

The conclusion that the New Zealand thin capitalization rules do not work for entities with arm's length debt applies to three important trading nations (China, India and the United Kingdom) and leads inevitably to the suggestion that New Zealand should, for example, follow the Australian approach of allowing a taxpayer to show it is compliant with thin capitalization rules when its funding is on an arm's-length basis.

Keywords: thin capitalisation, tax treaties, non-discrimination article, Article 24, anti-avoidance, do treaties override thin capitalisation rules

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Thin Capitalisation Rules and Treaties: Does the Ratio in the New Zealand Thin Capitalisation Rules Contravene New Zealand’s Tax Treaty Obligations? (July 31, 2012). New Zealand Business Law Quarterly, Vol. 18, No 4, pp. 307-332, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2120839 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2120839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
New Zealand's International Tax Review: a direction for change": a government discussion document prepared by the Policy Advice Division of Inland Revenue
Fact sheet-Thin capitalisation rules Posted: 2006-12
Ibid
29, it goes on to discuss the German safe harbour debt-to-asset ratio thin capitalisation rules being reduced from 75% to 60% in 2001 although it has kept the 75 per cent ratio for holding companies and the fact that Australia uses a 75 per cent safe harbour ratio
For a discussion on how earnings-stripping legislation differs from thin capitalisation legislation refer to page 27 of the article by Tim Edgar "Interest Deductibility Restrictions and Inbound Direct Investment", a Research Report prepared for the Advisory Panel on Canada's System of International Taxation Posted: 2008-10
To the extent that the US operates thin capitalisation principles Ernst & Young suggest that the US has no fixed rules for determining whether a thin capitalisation situation exists however they state that a debt to equity ratio of 3 to 1 (75% debt to total assets) is usually acceptable to the tax authorities Posted: 2011
Load more
1 Citations
Craig Macfarlane Elliffe
Thin Capitalisation Rules and Treaties: Does the Ratio in the New Zealand Thin Capitalisation Rules Contravene New Zealand’s Tax Treaty Obligations?
New Zealand Business Law Quarterly, Vol. 18, No 4, pp. 307-332, 2012 · 32 Pages · Posted: 1 Aug 2012 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2013 · Downloads: 462
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,173
RANK
142,697
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies