Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who is Afraid of Perpetual Trusts?

Michigan Law Review First Impressions, Vol. 110, pp. 79-89 (2012)

11 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2012

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

Throw a stone into a room full of law professors, and it is virtually impossible to hit someone who will defend perpetual trusts. This essay takes up the most recent objections lodged by Lawrence Waggoner, Professor Emeritus at the University of Michigan School of Law, and Reporter for the Restatement (Third) of Property: Wills and Other Donative Transfers. He laments a bygone era when a wise pater familias maintained a personal relationship with the local banker, and genteel lawyers took their leads from uniform law commissioners. Perpetual trusts raise important policy concerns, to be sure, but they are far from "folly," as Professor Waggoner calls them. The legal system does not yet have enough experience with perpetual trusts to understand their full implications. A more prudent approach would be to embrace a variation on the long-standing approach to perpetuities problems: let’s wait and see.

Keywords: perpetuities, trusts, perpetual trusts, rule against perpetuities

JEL Classification: K34, K39, K19

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Bridget J., Who is Afraid of Perpetual Trusts? (August 1, 2012). Michigan Law Review First Impressions, Vol. 110, pp. 79-89 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2121976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,221
RANK
568,179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies