Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FATCA - A Report from the Front Lines

Tax Notes, p. 713, August 6, 2012

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3001

4 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2012 Last revised: 17 Dec 2012

J. Richard (Dick) Harvey

Villanova University School of Law and Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

In this article, Harvey reports on two recent FATCA debates in Switzerland where he was responsible for explaining the background that led to FATCA and defending the enactment of FATCA. As a result, Harvey was clearly the least popular person in the room. This article summarizes certain issues discussed during the debates, including: (i) whether Swiss sovereignty has been violated; (ii) does FATCA generate enough revenue to justify its existence; (iii) whether Swiss FIs have considered the impact of a multilateral FATCA regime on their business model; and (iv) how to address the extensive termination of US accounts by Swiss financial institutions.

The article also briefly discusses the ultimate need for a multilateral FATCA regime that involves many major countries with one of the key issues being the need to develop globally acceptable customer due diligence procedures. Harvey suggests that tax authorities may want to increase coordination with the anti-money laundering/terrorist financing arms of government. Detailed customer due diligence may be easier to justify if it is being done for both tax and anti-terrorist/money laundering reasons.

Keywords: International taxation, FATCA, Offshore accounts, Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist financing, and Swiss accounts

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, J. Richard, FATCA - A Report from the Front Lines (August 1, 2012). Tax Notes, p. 713, August 6, 2012, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2122491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,019
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,465
RANK
51,030
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies