Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation Planning for Multinational Enterprises: A Proposed Course for Global Business Education

52 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2012

James Zhang

Brunel University London

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

In the era of globalisation, the multinational enterprises are the important platforms for international business. The tax planning is an effective approach to delivering additional competitive advantages to the multinational enterprises for the global market competition. As a critical part of our Global Business Education, the course of tax planning for multinational enterprises can offer professional knowledge and skills to our students for their professional careers in the tax practice. This course is delivered on the basis of both national and international tax legislations with an ‘activity-based’ learning approach to understanding the tax-effective supply chain management under an ‘SAVANT’ framework. This course is also a highly valuable asset that can form the core competence of our course team so that we can directly offer the global tax planning services and products for the multinational enterprises.

Keywords: tax planning, multinational enterprises, globalisation

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Liang, Taxation Planning for Multinational Enterprises: A Proposed Course for Global Business Education (August 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2122711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2122711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
A Bakker
Transfer pricing and business restructuring: streamlining all the way Posted: 2009
L Brandt , T G Rawski
China's great economic transformation Posted: 2008
Crossref
C Cai
Tax planning: theory, approach and cases Posted: 2009
Deloitte
Supply chain network optimisation: when it's time to deliver Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
397,014
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies