Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the State Corporate Income Tax

State Tax Notes, p. 901, June 2012

10 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2012

Christopher Davis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 25, 2012

Abstract

The state corporate income tax (CIT) is in desperate need of reform. The tax generates only a tiny percentage of a state’s tax revenue and it is expensive to administer. There is no one single problem with the tax, and in fact the problems with the tax are so systemic that some commentators have called for the tax to be abolished.

Despite the problems with the tax, it should not be abolished. States provide valuable services to corporations, and corporations should pay for those services. Therefore, instead of abolishing the state CIT, this report recommends a series of reforms to the tax to make it bring in more revenue for less effort.

In order to fix the state CIT, states must agree on three changes to the current system. The common feature of those three proposals is uniformity. A lack of uniformity is the main reason the state CIT fails in its current form; corporations are taking advantage of the different tax rules in different states to engage in tax avoidance. To properly reform the CIT, states would have to agree to all three of the following proposals. First, all states must adopt combined reporting. Second, states must agree on a tax base that does not incorporate federal-level tax breaks — this report recommends that states instead consider adopting accounting profits as a tax base. Finally, states must agree on a uniform system of apportioning profits.

Those reforms should produce a system of taxation that meets the requirements of a good tax, namely one that raises adequate revenue, has minimal effect on market decisions, is vertically and horizontally fair, is easy to administer, and provides state accountability to the taxpayer.

Keywords: state taxation, state corporate tax, state corporate income tax, SALT

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Christopher, Reforming the State Corporate Income Tax (June 25, 2012). State Tax Notes, p. 901, June 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2123712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
RANK
736,113
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies