Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Working Capital on the Profitability: Evidence from the Indian Firms

74 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2012

Saswata Chatterjee

University of Wales - Prifysgol Cymru

Date Written: August 6, 2012

Abstract

In order to run the company successfully, the fixed and the current assets play a commendable role. Managing the working capital is mandatory because, it has a major significance on profitability and liquidity of the business concern. Usually, it was observed that, if firm wants to take a bigger risk for bumper profits and losses, it minimises the dimension of its working capital in relation to the revenues it generates. If it is willing to improve its liquidity, that in turn raises the level of its working capital. Nevertheless, this technique might tend to reduce the sales volume and consequently, it would affect the profitability. Thus, a company needs to have a striking balance between the liquidity and the profitability. This research has analysed the impact of working capital on the profitability for a sample of 100 Indian companies listed in the Bombay Stock Exchange for a period of 2 years from 2010-2011. The various components for measuring the working capital management include the Receivable days, Inventory turnover days, Payable days, Cash conversion cycle, Current ratio and Quick ratio on the Net operating profitability of the Indian companies. The controlled variables like; Fixed assets on total assets, the Debt ratio and the size of the firm (measured in terms of natural logarithm of sales) have also been used for measuring of the working capital management. Descriptive Statistics, Pearson’s Correlation, Regression Analysis are used for analyzing this research. All these tests are used so as to correlate the theories contributed by the literature by several authors with the statistical results.

The results depict that, there is a strong negative association between the components of the working capital management and the profitability ratios of the Indian firms which indicates that, as the cash conversion cycle increases it would tend to reduce the profitability of the company, and the managers might increase the the shareholder’s value by shortening this cash conversion cycle to a minimum level. It is also observed that the negative association also persists between the liquidity and the profitability of the Indian firms. Nevertheless, there is a positive relationship between the size and the profitability of the firm. This indicates that, as the size of the firm increases the profitability of the firm also increases.

Finally a negative relationship is observed between the debt and profitability of the Indian firms. The results derived from this research signify that, the managers might able to raise their profits by diminishing the time period for the debtors and inventories so that, time period for payables would increase.

Keywords: Working Capital Management

Suggested Citation:

Chatterjee, Saswata, The Impact of Working Capital on the Profitability: Evidence from the Indian Firms (August 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2125228 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2125228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
 Adani Group
Annual Report and Accounts Posted: 2010
Shriram
Annual Report and Accounts Posted: 2010
M Siddiquee , S M Khan
Analyzing Working Capital Performance: Evidence from Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) Ltd Posted: 2009-02-15
J P Sing , S Pandey
Impact of Working Capital Management in the Profitability of Hindal co Industries Limited Posted: 2008
Load more
4 Citations
V. V. Spitsin , L. Yu. Spitsina
Sustainability, Effectiveness and Efficienc of Enterprises in High-Tech Sectors in Crisis Conditions: Econometric Modelling
Vestnik NSUEM , issue 2 , p. 160 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Vladislav Spitsin , Marina Ryzhkova , Darko Vukovic , Sergey Anokhin
Companies profitability under economic instability: evidence from the manufacturing industry in Russia
Journal of Economic Structures , volume 9 , issue 1 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Vladislav Spitsin , Darko Vukovic , Sergey Anokhin , Lubov Spitsina
Company performance and optimal capital structure: evidence of transition economy (Russia)
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 48 , issue 2 , p. 313 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Ashok Panigrahi
Impact of Negative Working Capital on Liquidity and Profitability: A Case Study of ACC Limited
Paper presented at International Conference, Prestige Institute of Management & Research, Indore during 30-31, Jan. 2014 · 18 Pages · Posted: 21 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 1,042
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
23,132
RANK
3,663
4 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Trade Credit: Theories and Evidence

By Mitchell A. Petersen and Raghuram G. Rajan

Interfirm Relationships and Informal Credit in Vietnam

By John Mcmillan and Christopher M. Woodruff

Commercial Paper, Corporate Finance, and the Business Cycle: A Microeconomic Perspective

By Charles W. Calomiris, Charles P. Himmelberg, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies