Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Transactional Genealogy of Scandal: From Michael Milken to Enron to Goldman Sachs

Southern California Law Review, Vol. 86, pp. 783-868 (2013)

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-26

Georgetown Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-034

Georgetown Public Law Research Paper No. 12-126

86 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2012 Last revised: 13 Dec 2014

William W. Bratton

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Miami School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Adam J. Levitin

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Three scandals have reshaped business regulation over the past thirty years: the securities fraud prosecution of Michael Milken in 1988, the Enron implosion of 2001, and the Goldman Sachs “ABACUS” enforcement action of 2010. The scandals have always been seen as unrelated. This Article highlights a previously unnoticed transactional affinity tying these scandals together — a deal structure known as the synthetic collateralized debt obligation involving the use of a special purpose entity (“SPE”). The SPE is a new and widely used form of corporate alter ego designed to undertake transactions for its creator’s accounting and regulatory benefit.

The SPE remains mysterious and poorly understood despite its use in framing transactions involving trillions of dollars and its prominence in foundational scandals. The traditional corporate alter ego was a subsidiary or affiliate with equity control. The SPE eschews equity control in favor of control through preset instructions emanating from transactional documents. In theory, these instructions are complete or very close thereto, making SPEs a real-world manifestation of the “nexus of contracts” firm of economic and legal theory. In practice, however, formal designations of separateness do not always stand up under the strain of economic reality.

When coupled with financial disaster, the use of an SPE alter ego can turn even a minor compliance problem into a scandal because of the mismatch between the traditional legal model of the firm and the SPE’s economic reality. The standard legal model looks to equity ownership to determine the boundaries of the firm: equity is inside the firm, while contract is outside. Regulatory regimes make inter-firm connections by tracking equity ownership. SPEs escape regulation by funneling inter-firm connections through contracts, rather than equity ownership.

The integration of SPEs into regulatory systems requires a ground-up rethinking of traditional legal models of the firm. A theory is emerging, not from corporate law or financial economics, but from accounting principles. Accounting has responded to these scandals by abandoning the equity touchstone in favor of an analysis in which contractual allocations of risk, reward, and control operate as functional equivalents of equity ownership — an approach that redraws the boundaries of the firm. Unfortunately, corporate and securities law hold out no prospects for similar responsiveness. Accordingly, we await the next alter-ego-based innovation from Wall Street’s transaction engineers with an incomplete menu of defensive responses.

Keywords: securitization, derivatives, CDO, CBO, CDS, Milken, Enron, SIV, Abacus, First Executive, Imperial Corporation, structured finance, firm, fiduciary, scandal, swaps, SPE, SPV

JEL Classification: G21, G32, K22, K42, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bratton, William Wilson and Levitin, Adam J., A Transactional Genealogy of Scandal: From Michael Milken to Enron to Goldman Sachs (2013). Southern California Law Review, Vol. 86, pp. 783-868 (2013), U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-26, Georgetown Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-034, Georgetown Public Law Research Paper No. 12-126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2126778 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2126778
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Financial , Extinguishments , Liabilities
It was followed by ACCOUNTING FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXTINGUISHMENTS OF LIABILITIES
Statement of Fin. Accounting Standards No. 125 (Fin. Accounting Standards Bd Posted: 1996
For the most recent iteration, see ACCOUNTING FOR TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS-AN AMENDMENT TO FASB STATEMENT NO. 140, Statement of Fin. Accounting Standards No
Accounting Standards No. 140 (Fin. Accounting Standards Bd Posted: 2000
See Bratton, supra note 176, at 8-11 (detailing the enactment of stricter accounting rules following Enron)
See William , W Bratton
Enron, Sarbanes-Oxley, and Accounting: Rules Versus Principles Versus Rents, 48 VILL. L. REV. 1023 , p. 1043 - 1087 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,863
ABSTRACT VIEWS
30,417
RANK
6,454
3 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies