Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
XBRL – A Major Step in Globalization of Integrated Financial Reporting System

DIAS Technology Review, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2011

11 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2012

S. Maheshwari

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Suneel Maheshwari

Indiana University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: August 9, 2012

Abstract

The most important role of financial statements is to present a true and fair picture of the business activities to the stakeholders so that they can use the information for meaningful decision making. To achieve that goal, stakeholders today are asking for integration of both financial and nonfinancial (environmental, social, and governance) performance measures in order to assess the attractiveness of a company (Watson et. al 2011). The challenge is to provide high quality information to the stakeholders efficiently and securely over the internet throughout the information supply chain. Requirements to file the financial reports in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language) format by various regulatory agencies around the world represent a crucial step in providing information to stakeholders in an efficient and secure way throughout the information supply chain.

XBRL is developed to address the limitation of traditional HTML reports, when used for data exchange. Traditional HTML reports are self-contained and its information cannot be automatically identified or retrieved by other computer software applications. XBRL solves this problem by ‘tagging’ individual items of data so that another computer can understand it and work with it.

The objective of this article is to provide a review of XBRL concepts that are important for professional accountants. The article explains the need for its origin in the US and its global acceptance, applications, advantages, risks, and implementation issues related to XBRL. Our effort is to provide the practitioners and users of XBRL with the information about XBRL and to underscore the need for its implementation. Opportunities and challenges created by XBRL implementation are also discussed. Current state of XBRL development in India has been summarized as well.

Suggested Citation:

Maheshwari, S. and Maheshwari, Suneel, XBRL – A Major Step in Globalization of Integrated Financial Reporting System (August 9, 2012). DIAS Technology Review, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2126930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
458
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,718
RANK
144,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Innovation Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies