Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Auditors in Corporate Governance in the Light of Satyam Scam

10 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2012

Amrita Mitra

KIIT LAW SCHOOL

Date Written: July 10, 2012

Abstract

Corporate governance loosely refers to the whole system of rights, processes and controls established internally and externally over the management of a business entity with the objective of protecting the interests of its stakeholders. At the most basic level, it can be described as the processes by which investors and stakeholders attempt to minimize the transaction costs and agency costs associated with doing business within a company. To do so the principal prerequisite is to have a clear, transparent and true picture of the company’s financial affairs. This has been achieved by the process of auditing, however willful or negligence in auditing process has led to disastrous consequences. Satyam scam has been the greatest scam in the history of corporate world of the India. Satyam is the fourth largest IT Company in India. The CEO of the company Ramlinga Raju has made a scam of around $2 billion. There has been a lot of controversy regarding the misuse of the post by the CEO of the company. The fake number of jobs which was shown by the CEO was an abuse of power and it was a clear violation of the prevailing laws in India. This gives the impression that in India the power and position is what matters and the people in the top position make a clear violation of the rights provided to them. This scam has seriously affected the corporate bodies in India. Hence auditing has an important place in the hierarchy of ideal corporate governance structure. This paper will focus on the role of auditors, liability of auditors in satyam scam, appointment and remuneration of auditors, standard of care and skill that auditor should maintain and auditor as gate-keeper to the finance of the company. Last but not the least I am hopeful that if the recommendations as proposed by me are implemented then transparency is bound to increase and would have a domino effect on corporate governance, thus by governing the auditors we may insure that corporate governance as a whole receive a fillip.

Keywords: corporate governance, duties of auditors, independence of auditors, liability of auditors, Irani Committee Report

Suggested Citation:

Mitra, Amrita, Role of Auditors in Corporate Governance in the Light of Satyam Scam (July 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2128528 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2128528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Ronald Henry Mynhardt
Universal corporate governance standards: recommendations following the global financial crisis
Corporate Ownership and Control , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 438 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,801
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,193
RANK
10,817
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies