Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Optimal Cash Conversion Cycle

International Research Journal of Finance and Economics. March (120), 13-22, 2014

12 Pages Posted: 14 Aug 2012 Last revised: 31 Dec 2017

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Maryam Al Hajjar

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: March 13, 2014

Abstract

The traditional link between the cash conversion cycle and the firm's profitability is that shortening the cash conversion cycle increases firm's profitability. On the other hand shortening the cash conversion cycle could harm the firm’s operations and reduce profitability. This could happen when taking actions to reduce the inventory conversion period, a firm could face inventory shortages; when reducing the receivable collection period a firm could lose its good credit customers; and when lengthening the payable deferral period a firm could harm its own credit reputation. However, identifying optimal levels of inventory, receivables, and payables where total holding and opportunities cost are minimized and recalculating the cash conversion cycle according to these optimal points provides more complete and accurate insights into the efficiency of working capital management. In this regard, we suggest an optimal cash conversion cycle as more accurate and comprehensive measure of working capital management.

Keywords: Working Capital Management, Optimal Cash Conversion Cycle, Cash Conversion Cycle, Receivable Collection Period, Inventory Conversion Period, Payable Deferral Period, Weighted Cash Conversion Cycle, Net Trade Cycle

JEL Classification: G30, G32, L25, O25

Suggested Citation:

Nobanee, Haitham and Al Hajjar, Maryam, An Optimal Cash Conversion Cycle (March 13, 2014). International Research Journal of Finance and Economics. March (120), 13-22, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2128662
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
W K Alshattarat , H Nobanee , A E Haddad , M Alhajjar
Working Capital Management, Operating Cash Flow and Corporate Performance
International Journal of Strategic Management , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 88 Posted: 2010
M Arellano , S Bond
Some Test of specification of Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M Arellano , O Bover
Another Look at the Instrumental Variable Estimation of Error Component Models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 68 , p. 29 - 51 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Besley , E Brigham
Essentials of Managerial Finance Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,629
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,118
RANK
11,957
2 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies