Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Myth of Cross-Border Cooperation: Mutual Assistance for the Collection of Tax Claims in Cross-Border Insolvencies

Emory Bankruptcy Developments Journal, Vol. 29, Spring 2013

38 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2012 Last revised: 17 Sep 2012

Mathews Vattamala

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: August 13, 2012

Abstract

“No country is an island to itself.” Cross-border tax cooperation and compliance are crucial to the health of the United States economy and the protection of its tax base. Yet, foreign courts administering cross-border insolvencies may deny a U.S. tax claim, even when such claims are treated as secured claims under local law. In a similar vein, a U.S. bankruptcy court recently refused to recognize the tax claim of a foreign government in reliance of the anachronistic common law doctrine, known as the “revenue rule.” To ensure other governments extend the U.S. the necessary cooperation it will need to collect its tax claims in the cross-border context, this Article recommends that the U.S. government: (1) revoke the revenue rule; or at minimum grant an exclusion to employee pension and insolvency related claims; (2) amend its current network of bilateral tax treaties to incorporate specific provisions to provide mutual assistance in the collection of tax claims in cross-border insolvencies; (3) initiate a dialogue with the member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create measures that protect the tax base of every nation without discouraging competition or the cross-border flow of business, capital, and ideas.

Keywords: Chapter 15, Bankruptcy, Collection of Tax Claims, Cross-Border Insolvencies, Avoidance Action

Suggested Citation:

Vattamala, Mathews, The Myth of Cross-Border Cooperation: Mutual Assistance for the Collection of Tax Claims in Cross-Border Insolvencies (August 13, 2012). Emory Bankruptcy Developments Journal, Vol. 29, Spring 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2128763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
U S C
, volume 304 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Developments See , In The , Law , Harv L Extraterritoriality , Rev
, volume 1292 Posted: 2005
See John , A Barrett
Risks and Problems of Forum Selection in a Cross-Border Insolvency Case
NORTON ANN. REV. OF INT'L INSOLVENCY , volume 4 Posted: 2009
See Finanz , A G Zurich V. Banco Economico , S A
825 F.2d , volume 240 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
293
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,818
RANK
237,609
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies