Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Our Ivory Towers? The Research-Practice Gap in Management Accounting: An Academic Perspective

86 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2012

Basil P. Tucker

University of South Australia

Lee Parker

Independent

Date Written: August 15, 2012

Abstract

Motivated by repeated observations in the management accounting literature concerning the relevance of academic research to policy and practice communities, this study reports on an exploratory investigation of the perceptions and attitudes of a sample of 64 senior management accounting academics from 55 universities in 14 countries about the extent to which academic management accounting research does, and should inform practice. Drawing on Diffusion of Innovations theory as a point of departure, and based on evidence obtained from a questionnaire survey and subsequent interviews, our findings reveal the prevalence of two broad schools of thought. One school, represented by the majority of senior academics, and which we have identified as, the ‘majority view’, holds there is a significant and widening ‘gap’ between academic research and the practice of management accounting, and that this gap is of considerable concern. In contrast, the other school, which we identify as ‘the minority view’, holds that a divide between academic management accounting research and practice is appropriate, and that efforts to bridge this divide are unnecessary, untenable or irrelevant. From this empirical evidence, we advance a conceptual framework distinguishing between the ‘means’ and ‘ends’ of academic research which enables these two opposing schools to be located relative to each other. On the basis of this framework, we contend that framing the relationship between academic research and practice as a ‘gap’ is potentially an oversimplification, and directs attention away from the broader but fundamental question of the role and societal relevance of academic research in management accounting.

Keywords: research-practice gap, diffusion of innovations theory, management accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Tucker, Basil P. and Parker, Lee, In Our Ivory Towers? The Research-Practice Gap in Management Accounting: An Academic Perspective (August 15, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2130224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: A field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
J F _______ , Dent
Accounting and organizations: realizing the richness of field research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
J Amat , S Carmona , H Roberts
Context and change in management accounting systems: a Spanish case study
Management Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 126 Posted: 1994
Crossref
G Baldvinsdottir , F Mitchell , H Nørreklit
Issues in the relationship between theory and practice in management accounting
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 82 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,102
RANK
202,849
9 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Conjectures Regarding Empirical Managerial Accounting Research

By Jerold L. Zimmerman

In Search of Management Accounting Theory

By Teemu Malmi and Markus Granlund

Innovation in Management Accounting: The Needs of World-Class Firms

By Shokrollah Khajavi and Amin Nazemi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies