Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Taxation for Offshore Residents from the USA, UK and Australia - A Comparative Analysis

Asian Institute of International Financial Law Seminar Series, University of Hong Kong, February 2010

Posted: 16 Aug 2012 Last revised: 21 Aug 2014

Sarah Hinchliffe

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business; William & Mary Law School

Date Written: February 4, 2010

Abstract

This paper outlines and examines the taxation implications (primarily income tax) for residents of the United Kingdom (UK) and Australia also citizens and permanent residents of the United States (US) who are employed overseas. In addition to identifying specific taxation implications for residents of the UK and Australia, also citizens and permanent residents of the US who are employed abroad, this paper discusses the historical foundations of the US, UK and Australian [federal] tax regimes, including an analysis if their respective strengths and weaknesses.

Keywords: International taxation, taxation residency, domicile, taxation regimes, taxation planning

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H24, H25, H26, H71, K00, K10, K20, K33, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Hinchliffe, Sarah, The Implications of Taxation for Offshore Residents from the USA, UK and Australia - A Comparative Analysis (February 4, 2010). Asian Institute of International Financial Law Seminar Series, University of Hong Kong, February 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130773
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies