Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation Implications for Foreign Employees in Hong Kong

3 HONG KONG LAWYER 24-30 (2010)

Posted: 16 Aug 2012 Last revised: 21 Aug 2014

Sarah Hinchliffe

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business; William & Mary Law School

Date Written: February 15, 2010

Abstract

Hong Kong is not a tax haven, but is probably the only international financial centre that is not covered by a Double Tax Agreement (DTA). The relevant DTAs between the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the UK, the PRC and Australia or the PRC and the US do not apply to Hong Kong. This is because the wording of the relevant DTAs expressly states that the treaties apply only in ‘all territories of the People’s Republic of China in which the laws relating to Chinese tax are in force’, within which Hong Kong, a special administrative region, does not fall. As a consequence, residents of the UK and Australia or citizens of the US who are employed in Hong Kong are required to work out whether they are subject to the domestic tax regimes of their home jurisdictions.

Keywords: Hong Kong tax regime, international taxation, expatriate, residency, double tax agreement, double tax treaty

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H24, H25, H26, H71, K00, K10, K20, K33, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Hinchliffe, Sarah, Taxation Implications for Foreign Employees in Hong Kong (February 15, 2010). 3 HONG KONG LAWYER 24-30 (2010), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2130786
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies