Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mutual Funds, Fairness, and the Income Gap

Alabama Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2013

Loyola University Chicago School of Law Research Paper No. 2012-013

47 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2012 Last revised: 8 Nov 2013

Samuel D. Brunson

Loyola University Chicago School of Law

Date Written: August 3, 2012

Abstract

The rich, it turns out, are different from the rest of us. The wealthy, for example, can assemble a diversified portfolio of securities, or can invest through hedge and private equity funds. When the rest of us invest, we do so largely through mutual funds. Nearly half of American households own mutual funds, and mutual funds represented a significant portion of the financial assets held by U.S. households.

The tax rules governing mutual funds create an investment vehicle with significantly worse tax treatment than investments available to the wealthy. In particular, the tax rules governing mutual funds force shareholders to pay taxes on “forced realization income,” even though such income does not increase their wealth.

Because mutual fund investors must pay taxes on non-existent gains, while the wealthy can use alternative investment strategies to avoid such taxes, the taxation of mutual funds violates the tax policy objective of vertical equity. To correct the inequities faced by mutual fund investors, the tax law needs to permit low- and middle-income taxpayers to exclude from their income 10 percent of the capital gain dividends they receive each year.

Keywords: federal income tax, mutual fund, regulated investment company, RIC, exemption, dividend, capital gain dividends, savings, investment, vertical equity, fairness

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Brunson, Samuel D., Mutual Funds, Fairness, and the Income Gap (August 3, 2012). Alabama Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2013, Loyola University Chicago School of Law Research Paper No. 2012-013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2131405 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2131405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Republican Representative Paul Ryan's 2012 proposed budget resolution would, among other things, reduce the top corporate tax rate to 25%. Michael Beller, Obama Calls House GOP Budget "Laughable
Rev. Proc. 2013-15 § 2.01 Posted: 2012
Martin A Sullivan
Economic Analysis: Will Rate Changes Transform C Corps Into Tax Shelters? Posted: 2012
I R
Posted: 2006
Crossref
Adam Chodorow
Tracing Basis Through Virtual Spaces, 95 CORNELL L. REV , volume 283 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,739
RANK
306,268
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies