Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationships between Organizational Performance and Personnel Decisions

Posted: 20 Aug 2012 Last revised: 25 Apr 2014

Simon Jonghwan Kim

Yonsei University School of Business

Date Written: April 24, 2014

Abstract

Despite the theoretical prescription of a non-zero weight on an organizational performance indicator in bonus contracts, we know little about the effect of organizational performance on the personnel decisions of workers whose contribution to the organizational performance is limited. This paper empirically examines whether performance of an organization, measured in return on assets (ROA), affects decisions to promote or dismiss executives in the organization and explores potential moderators of the relationship. In a sample of 4,657 executive-years in a Korean conglomerate, I find that (1) the likelihoods of promotions (dismissals) are positively (negatively) associated with corporate and segment ROAs; (2) the association exists only when promotions involve hierarchical advancement; (3) it is significant only for executives at lower ranks or with lower managerial responsibility; and (4) it is stronger when there are greater inter-organizational interdependencies. The findings suggest probable mechanisms that help large organizations to mitigate promotion-related constraints and to retain the intensity of promotion-based incentives even for organizational performance.

Keywords: organizational performance, promotions, dismissals, transfers, intrafirm job mobility, types of promotions, job responsibility, interdependencies

JEL Classification: M41, M50, M51, M12, J30

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Jonghwan, Relationships between Organizational Performance and Personnel Decisions (April 24, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2132150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2132150
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies