Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reliable Sustainability Ratings: The Influence of Business Models on Information Intermediaries

Chapter in Routledge Handbook on Responsible Investing (Forthcoming)

28 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2012 Last revised: 22 Oct 2014

Robert G. Eccles

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Jock Herron

Harvard University - School of Design

George Serafeim

Harvard Business School

Date Written: August 19, 2012

Abstract

A new generation of corporate reporting - integrated reporting - is emerging that will help investors and other key stakeholders such as employees, customers, suppliers, and NGOs develop a deeper and more comprehensive appreciation of corporate performance than what is currently provided by GAAP financial reporting. The purpose of this paper is to examine the optimal design of information intermediaries that can increase the impact of sustainability information on corporate conduct. Specifically, we focus on two issues: who pays for the information and which performance metrics should be included in assessing the sustainability performance of a company.

Keywords: sustainability, ratings, corporate performance, rating agencies, conflicts of interest, integrated reporting, corporate social responsibility

JEL Classification: A13, I31, J24, J28, M00, M1, M14, M41, D82, D83, D84

Suggested Citation:

Eccles, Robert G. and Herron, Jock and Serafeim, George, Reliable Sustainability Ratings: The Influence of Business Models on Information Intermediaries (August 19, 2012). Chapter in Routledge Handbook on Responsible Investing (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2132144
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
P Barach , M Baratz
The Two Faces of Power
The American Political Science Review , volume 56 , p. 947 - 95 Posted: 1962
Crossref
W Beaver , C Shakespeare , M Soliman
Differential Properties in the Ratings of Certified vs. non-Certified Bond Rating Agencies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 303 - 334 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Benson-Armer , S Hasker
B2B Information Services: The Opportunity for Strategic Growth Posted: 2009
H Blodgett
The Wall Street Self-Defense Manual: A Consumer's Guide to Intelligent Investing Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
482
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,666
RANK
135,530
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Nonfinancial Measures to Assess Fraud Risk

By Joseph F. Brazel, Keith L. Jones, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

A Survey of Governance Disclosures Among U.S. Firms

By Lori Holder-webb, Jeffrey R. Cohen, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies