Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS or IFRS-based Domestic Standards: Implications for China’s Future Accounting System

International Journal of Management and Business Research, 2 (2), 164-174, Spring 2012

11 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2012 Last revised: 8 Apr 2013

Muhammad Umar Draz

Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

People’s Republic of China has a long history of accounting and accounting reforms. This study focuses on “whether China should continue its IFRS-based domestic accounting standards or full convergence with the IFRS is more appropriate?” Both quantitative and qualitative approaches are applied to answer the research question of this work. Binary choice model has been used in the statistical analysis because data of two variables shows presence or absence. The results of our model indicate that China’s accounting reforms, including convergence with the IFRS, are significantly associated with the internal and external factors. In the light of our statistical findings and details of the theoretical aspects (i.e. environmental determinism theory, globalization, growth of economy and accounting profession in China and regulatory influence of the Chinese government) this study proposes that China should continue its IFRS-based domestic accounting standards and further convergence with the IFRS should be launched in case of decisive needs only.

Keywords: Accounting Reforms, China, Environmental Determinism Theory, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Draz, Muhammad Umar, IFRS or IFRS-based Domestic Standards: Implications for China’s Future Accounting System (June 1, 2012). International Journal of Management and Business Research, 2 (2), 164-174, Spring 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2134519 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2134519
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M Aiken , W Lu
Historical Instances of Innovative Accounting Practices in the Chinese Dynasties and Beyond
The Accounting Historians Journal , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 186 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Aiken , W Lu
The Evolution of Bookkeeping in China: Integrating Historical Trends with Western Influences
ABACUS , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 140 - 162 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J R Alexander
History of Accounting
Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States Posted: 2002
P Carlson
Examining Perceptions of Harmonisation: The Case of Singapore and Malaysia
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,590
RANK
268,746
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies