Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reviewing External Auditor's Duties and Liabilities in Malawian Banking Industry

10 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2012

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: October 11, 2012

Abstract

The Malawian Banking Act 2010 and Financial Services Act 2010 require that external auditors of Malawian banks should perform extra duties on behalf of Central Bank in additional to specific duties outlined in the Malawi Companies Act 1984 and International Standards on Auditing (ISAs).

The results of this study suggest that external auditors of Malawian banks do not quote the provisions of Banking Act 2010 and Financial Services Act 2010 in their audit reports. Consequently, external auditors might not be properly remunerating themselves in view of increased volume of work and perhaps risk overlooking additional accountability burdens to other stakeholders with potential increase in litigation costs.

Keywords: Auditor, Duty, Liability, Malawi, Banking, Financial

JEL Classification: M00, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Reviewing External Auditor's Duties and Liabilities in Malawian Banking Industry (October 11, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2137207 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2137207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Acca
Audit reform: aligning risk with responsibility
Accountancy Futures Posted: 2011
Philmore Alleyne , Michael Howard
An exploratory study of auditors' responsibility for fraud detection in Barbados
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 284 - 303 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Puspa Amri , Apanard P Angkin , Clas Wihlborg
International comparisons of bank regulation, liberalization,and banking crises
Journal of Financial Economic Policy Posted: 2011
Crossref
B V Balachandran
Introduction: auditors' legal liability in the United States
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 341 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,989
RANK
195,180
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies