Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Qualifies as an Audit Committee Financial Expert Under SEC Regulations and NYSE Rules?

11 DePaul Business & Commercial Law Journal (Winter 2013)

33 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2012 Last revised: 16 Aug 2013

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Date Written: August 28, 2012

Abstract

During recent years heightened standards for board audit committee membership has been imposed by the SEC, NYSE and others. Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Audit Committee will be comprised solely of independent directors, and that the company must disclose whether at least one of the members of the Audit Committee is a “financial expert” and if not, why not. An “audit committee financial expert” is defined as a person who has the following attributes: (i) an understanding of generally accepted accounting principles and financial statements; (ii) the ability to assess the general application of such principles in connection with the accounting for estimates, accruals and reserves; (iii) experience preparing, auditing, analyzing or evaluating financial statements that present a breadth and level of complexity of accounting issues that are generally comparable to the breadth and complexity of issues that can reasonably be expected to be raised by the registrant’s financial statements, or experience actively supervising one or more persons engaged in such activities; (iv) an understanding of internal controls and procedures for financial reporting; and (v) an understanding of audit committee functions.

Many seasoned audit committee chairmen hold the view that Audit Committee Financial Experts should be experienced in performing financial accounting functions themselves -- rather than simply having supervisory experience over the function. Indicative of this view is that if accounting is the language of business, an Audit Committee Financial Expert needs to fluently “speak GAAP and GAAS” to understand the nuances of sophisticated and complex accounting, auditing, internal controls and SEC regulations. Who then qualifies as a financial expert? This is a fact-dependent practical question that must be answered by every board, governance and nominating committee, and audit committee member. My goal here is to examine the technical requirements imposed by law and regulation and to present thoughts as to best practice.

Keywords: Accounting, Audit Committee, Boards, Board Structure, Corporate Governance, Directors, Entrepreneurship, Financial Expert, Independent Directors, Internal Controls, Nominating Committee, NYSE, Organizational Behavior, Risk Management, Sarbanes-Oxley, SEC, Strategy, Succession

JEL Classification: K22, M1, M41, D21, D23, D81, D82, G10, G18, G21, G22, G24, G28, G30, G34, O33

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J., Who Qualifies as an Audit Committee Financial Expert Under SEC Regulations and NYSE Rules? (August 28, 2012). 11 DePaul Business & Commercial Law Journal (Winter 2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2137747 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2137747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
12 Citations
Ananth Seetharaman , Xu (Frank) Wang , Sanjian (Bill) Zhang
An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Accounting Expertise in Audit Committees on Non-GAAP Earnings Exclusions
Accounting Horizons , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 17 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Lawrence J. Trautman , Peter Ormerod
Wannacry, Ransomware, and the Emerging Threat to Corporations
86 Tennessee Law Review 503 (2019) · 54 Pages · Posted: 4 Sep 2018 · Last revised: 28 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 1,948
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Lawrence J. Trautman , Mohammed T. Hussein , Emmanuel U. Opara , Mason Molesky , Shahedur Rahman
Posted: No Phishing
8 Emory Corporate Governance and Accountability Review 39 (2021) · 37 Pages · Posted: 31 Mar 2020 · Last revised: 13 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 714
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ananth Seetharaman , Xu (Frank) Wang , Sanjian Zhang
An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Accounting Expertise in Audit Committees on Non-GAAP Earnings Exclusions
Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 2 Sep 2010 · Last revised: 11 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
22,038
RANK
11,545
12 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies