Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interim Financial Reporting in Malawi

12 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2012

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: November 21, 2012

Abstract

Malawi Stock Exchange Listing Rules stipulate that listed companies are required to publish interim financial statements covering half year period in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Equally, Reserve Bank of Malawi Information Directive dictates that all Malawian banks should publish interim financial reports in the local newspapers not later than 31st August of each year.

The study has however found out that Malawian banks appear to adopt laissez faire approach in publishing interim financial reports. The value of the interim financial reports has mixed results as far as investors are concerned. Related party transactions could be marring the intended procedures of the Malawi Stock Exchange. Regulators need to do more to improve the current status quo.

Keywords: Interim, Financial, Reporting, Malawi, Reserve, Bank, Stock, Exchange, Listed

JEL Classification: M00, M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Interim Financial Reporting in Malawi (November 21, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2137208 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2137208
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
C Botosan
Disclosure level and the cost of equity capital
Accounting Review , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 323 - 352 Posted: 1997
Lawrence D Brown , Arianna S Pinello
To What Extent Does the Financial Reporting Process Curb Earnings Surprise Games?
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , p. 94 - 981 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Cristina Bunea-Bontaş
Interim Financial Reporting in the Perspective of harmonization of the Romanian Accountancy with the International Financial Reporting Standards
Munich Personal RePEc Archive , volume 9 Posted: 2007-07
B Cornell , W Landsman
Security price response to quarterly earnings announcements and analysts' forecast revisions
Accounting Review , volume 64 , issue 4 , p. 680 - 92 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
298,603
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies