Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simulating the Effects of Michigan’s Mega Tax Credit Program on Job Creation and Fiscal Benefits

Upjohn Institute for Employment Research Working Paper 12-185

35 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2012

Timothy Bartik

W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research

George A. Erickcek

W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research

Date Written: June 30, 2012

Abstract

This paper simulates job and fiscal impacts of Michigan’s MEGA tax credit program for job creation. Under plausible assumptions about how such credits affect business location decisions, the net costs per job created of the MEGA program are simulated to be of modest size. The job creation impacts of MEGA are simulated to be considerably larger than devoting similar dollar resources to general business tax cuts. The simulation methodology developed here is applicable to incentives in other states.

Keywords: State and local economic development policy, tax incentives, fiscal impact analysis, labor market benefits, regional multipliers

JEL Classification: R11, R23, R28, R30, R58, H70

Suggested Citation:

Bartik, Timothy and Erickcek, George A., Simulating the Effects of Michigan’s Mega Tax Credit Program on Job Creation and Fiscal Benefits (June 30, 2012). Upjohn Institute for Employment Research Working Paper 12-185, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2138249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2138249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
T J Bartik
Who benefits from state and local economic development policies? Kalamazoo Posted: 1991
Crossref
T J Bartik
The effects of state and local taxes on economic development: A review of recent research
Economic Development Quarterly , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 1992
Crossref
T J Bartik
Jobs for the poor: Can labor demand policies help Posted: 2001
T J Bartik
Solving the problems of economic development incentives
Growth and Change , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 139 - 166 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
778,997
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies