Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lexis Nexus Complexus: Comparative Contract Law and International Accounting Collide in the IASB-FASB Revenue Recognition Exposure Draft

46 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law 515 (2013)

66 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2012 Last revised: 10 Apr 2013

Kurt S. Schulzke

University of North Georgia

Gerlinde Berger-Walliser

University of Connecticut - School of Business; University of Connecticut - School of Law

Pier Luigi Marchini

University of Parma - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 31, 2012

Abstract

U.S. and international accounting-standard setters plan to launch a new, global revenue accounting standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in 2013. Poised at the nexus of comparative contract law and international accounting, the proposal’s contract-based revenue recognition model creates new legal risks and opportunities for accountants, lawyers, clients, and financial statement users. Despite its focus on legally enforceable contracts, the proposed standard was drafted without input from the legal community. This Article models the proposal’s complex contract-analysis process, demonstrating that its revenue outcomes may vary materially because of seemingly minor interjurisdictional differences in law applicable to “open-price” contracts; offers practice pointers for attorneys, accountants, and auditors; recommends changes to the proposal, including the substitution of self-enforcing Nash equilibria for legally enforceable contracts; and encourages more collaboration between the legal and accounting professions in the joint deployment of legal and accounting expertise for better value creation, value allocation, and risk mitigation.

Keywords: comparative contract law, revenue recognition, proactive law, Nash equilibria, international accounting, IFRS, FASB Codification

JEL Classification: M41, K12, K22, K33

Suggested Citation:

Schulzke, Kurt S. and Berger-Walliser, Gerlinde and Marchini, Pier Luigi, Lexis Nexus Complexus: Comparative Contract Law and International Accounting Collide in the IASB-FASB Revenue Recognition Exposure Draft (August 31, 2012). 46 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law 515 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2139578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2139578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
which is the most important antecedent of German civil law. Riegert, supra note 121, at 49. 183. See generally Daniel Klerman & Paul G. Mahoney, Legal Origin? , volume 35
Comp , Econ
explaining the historical divergences that led to the current systemic differences between countries whose legal systems are based on English common law and those whose systems are based on French civil law) , volume 278 Posted: 2007
S.-O.-L Mitchel De , &apos; E Lasser
The European Pasteurization of French Law
Cornell L Rev
American system traditionally grants its judges explicit honest-to-goodness lawmaking power-as evidenced by the term 'case law,' for which there is, quite tellingly, no French equivalent , volume 995 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
915
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,950
RANK
59,211
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies