Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transaction Tax and Market Quality of U.S. Futures Markets: An Ex-Ante Analysisi

Review of Futures Markets, July 2012, p. 141-177

48 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2012

C. Johan Bjursell

Barclays Capital

George H. K. Wang

George Mason University - Department of Finance

Jot Yau

Seattle University

Date Written: August 31, 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we analyze the impact of a transaction tax on the market quality of U.S. futures markets by estimating the elasticity of trading volume and of price volatility with respect to bid-ask spread in a three-equation model framework for eleven financial, agricultural, metals, and energy futures for the period 2005-2010. We find that: (1) Trading volume has a negative relationship with bid-ask spread and a positive relationship with price volatility after controlling for other factors; (2) Bid-ask spread has a negative relationship with trading volume and a positive relationship with price volatility; and (3) Price volatility has a positive relationship with bid-ask spread and with trading volume after controlling for other variables. We demonstrate that a transaction tax, which is analogous to a bigger bid-ask spread, will drastically reduce trading volume if the tax constitutes a significant increase in the total fixed trading cost, and/or the elasticity of trading volume with respect to transaction cost is high enough. Thus, a transaction tax may not raise substantial revenue for the government as suggested in other studies.

Suggested Citation:

Bjursell, C. Johan and Wang, George H. K. and Yau, Jot, Transaction Tax and Market Quality of U.S. Futures Markets: An Ex-Ante Analysisi (August 31, 2012). Review of Futures Markets, July 2012, p. 141-177, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2139575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
R Z Aliber , B Chowdhry , Yan , S
Some evidence that a Tobin tax on foreign exchange transactions may increase volatility
European Finance Review , volume 7 , p. 481 - 510 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
Transaction taxes and stock values
Modernizing US Securities Regulation: Economic and Legal Perspectives , p. 427 - 450 Posted: 1993
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
The effects of a New York state stock transaction tax, Working paper Posted: 2003
T G Anderson , T Bollerslev , F X Diebold , H Ebens
The distribution of realized stock return volatility
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 61 , p. 43 - 76 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
RANK
401,129
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies