Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounts Receivable Management and the Factoring Option: Evidence from a Bank-Based Economy

22 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2012 Last revised: 28 Nov 2012

Thomas Hartmann-Wendels

University of Cologne - Department of Banking

Alwin Stöter

University of Cologne - Department of Banking

Date Written: September 18, 2012

Abstract

In this paper we analyze how firms that extend trade credit finance and operate the generated accounts receivable. Firms decide whether to internally manage the trade credit, use full-service factoring or enter into an inhouse factoring contract. Our model is mainly based on a theory of the firm that stresses the need for financing, the supplier's risk and the financial flexibility. We find that high risk firms with a strong need for short term financing and restricted access to bank credit enter into a market transaction such as a full-service or inhouse factoring contract. Larger firms tend to manage the accounting and debt collection of the accounts receivable on their own and thus prefer inhouse factoring whereas small firms rely on full-service factoring. Financial diversification in terms of independence from banks plays an important role for the decision to employ a factor.

Keywords: factoring, accounts receivable, trade credit

JEL Classification: G32, G29

Suggested Citation:

Hartmann-Wendels, Thomas and Stöter, Alwin, Accounts Receivable Management and the Factoring Option: Evidence from a Bank-Based Economy (September 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2140870 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2140870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Size (sales) Respondents indicated response as follows (sales in million euro): <2 2-5 6-10 indicated response as follows
Net income Respondents indicated response as follows (in million euro): response as follows
Equity / Assets Respondents indicated response as follows
as follows: Completely Very heavily Heavily Not Heavily Hardly Not at all
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,552
RANK
36,097
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies