Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Projecting the Local into the Global: Trajectories of Participation in Transnational Standard-Setting

In: Gili Drori, Markus Höllerer and Peter Walgenbach (Eds.): Organizations and Managerial Ideas: Global Themes and Local Variations, Routledge 2013 (Forthcoming)

37 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2012

Olga Malets

Technische Universität München (TUM)

Sigrid Quack

Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

In this chapter, we explain why and how a set of global ideas of stakeholder/constituency participation, inclusiveness, and fair representation are built into transnational standard-setting organizations’ structures and procedures and how local ideas and concerns are reflected in them. We show that this does not occur in one single manner across various governance fields and identify two trajectories along which transnational governance fields emerge and develop — monopolistic and pluralistic. We demonstrate in two empirical case-studies — financial accounting and forest management standards — how three sets of factors, including initial organizational design, challenges and contestation, and organizational responsiveness, shape these trajectories. We ground our analysis on the notion of glocalization and the literature on transnational standard-setting emphasizing the contested nature of governance fields.

Keywords: participation, standard-setting, accounting, forest certification

Suggested Citation:

Malets, Olga and Quack, Sigrid, Projecting the Local into the Global: Trajectories of Participation in Transnational Standard-Setting (2012). In: Gili Drori, Markus Höllerer and Peter Walgenbach (Eds.): Organizations and Managerial Ideas: Global Themes and Local Variations, Routledge 2013 (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2141770
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
G Auld
Reversal of fortune: how early choices can alter the logic of market-based authority Posted: 2009
G Auld , L H Gulbrandsen
Transparency in nonstate certification: consequences for accountability and legitimacy
Global Environmental Politics , volume 10 , p. 97 - 119 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T Bartley
Institutional emergence in an era of globalization: the rise of transnational private regulation of labor and environmental conditions
American Journal of Sociology , volume 113 , p. 297 - 351 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Beckert
Imagined futures: fictionality in economic action. MPIfG discussion paper 11/8. Cologne: Max Planck Institute for the Study of Societies Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
232
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,652
RANK
301,137
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Built Environment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies