Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Errors in Audited Financial Statements and Restatement – Evidence from Brazil

11 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2012

Joshua Onome Imoniana

University of São Paulo, FEA/USP Department of Accounting

Luiz C. J. Perera

Mackenzie Presbyterian University

Fabiano Lima

University of São Paulo (USP) - Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting of Ribeirão Preto (FEARP)

Date Written: March 16, 2012

Abstract

The main objective of this study was to analyze the pattern of accounting events that signals error in audited financial statements and resulted in restatement in Brazil during the periods of 2000-2009. The study which is characterized as interpretative, borrows a leaf from the contexts studied by academics and practitioners worldwide by reflecting upon the phenomenon of restatement through narrative approach. The study identified that 2008 restatement was comprised of 3rd Quarterly Financial statement reporting, motivated by errors in reporting financial instruments (derivatives, swaps, hedges) interpreted wrongly by companies with incorrect policies or have had lukewarm attitude on their treatment. This made up of approximately 43% of the restatements listed during 2000-2009. There was also evidence from our study that shows that restatements had institutional causality. Others were organisational accounting policies, tax contingencies, risk assumptions, items treated as others, to mention just a few. With the trend of things, evidence suggests that the financial reporting environment — securities regulators, independent auditors, the security markets themselves appear to be successfully causing firms who are caught in violation of financial accounting rules to reform their financial reporting policies through restatement. We arrive at this conclusion as a result of the perceived increase of restatement generated recently.

Keywords: Accounting Errors, Audited Financial Statement, Restatement Brazil

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Imoniana, Joshua Onome and Perera, Luiz Carlos Jacob and Lima, Fabiano, Errors in Audited Financial Statements and Restatement – Evidence from Brazil (March 16, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2142910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2142910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Opinion No
APB -Accounting Principles Board , volume 20 Posted: 1971
Jennifer L Brown
The Spread of Aggressive Corporate Tax Reporting: A Detailed Examination of the Corporate-Owned Life Insurance Shelter
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 57 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R C Bogdan , S K Biklen
Qualitative Research for education: An Introduction to Theory and Methods Posted: 1992
Q D Cheng , B Faber
Earning restatement, changes in CEO compensation, and firm performance
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 1217 - 1250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,834
RANK
177,685
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies