Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dealing with DOMA: Federal Non-Recognition Complicates State Income Taxation of Same-Sex Relationships

Columbia Journal of Gender and Law, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2012

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 375

58 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2012 Last revised: 10 Dec 2012

Carlton M. Smith

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law; New York University School of Law

Edward Stein

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: September 7, 2012

Abstract

Various states now recognize relationships between people of the same-sex, but due to the Defense of Marriage Act, the federal government does not. In the context of income taxes, this combination of state recognition and federal non-recognition of same-sex relationships produces a significant problem for many same-sex couples and some state taxing authorities. Most states have income tax and, typically, state income tax laws “piggyback” on federal income tax laws. Depending on the state, same-sex couples in legally-recognized relationships must file their state income tax returns as married (either “filing jointly” or “filing separately”), as domestic partners, or as parties to a civil union. Such same-sex couples cannot, however, file their federal income tax returns as a couple. For same-sex couples, this situation creates uncertainty and complications and probably increases the risk of audit. It is also an unfair affront to the dignity of lesbians, gay men, and bisexuals. The Article examines this problem by surveying the guidance from thirteen states and the District of Columbia with respect to the taxation of same-sex relationships and by considering each jurisdiction’s actual income tax practices. The Article also recommends best practices for state taxing authorities, including: (1) amending state tax laws to specifically allow joint filing by same-sex couples; (2) issuing more guidance to same-sex couples on specific relevant issues; (3) adding boxes to state tax returns to indicate that these returns will involve nonconformity with federal filing status; and (4) not requiring same-sex couples who file state joint income tax returns to also complete “pro forma” federal “married” income tax returns.

Keywords: marriage, tax, gay, lesbian, state income tax, DOMA, same-sex marriage

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Carlton M. and Stein, Edward, Dealing with DOMA: Federal Non-Recognition Complicates State Income Taxation of Same-Sex Relationships (September 7, 2012). Columbia Journal of Gender and Law, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2012, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 375, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2143443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Registered Domestic Partners in Oregon, oR. dep't oF ReVenue Posted: 2012-08-08
Crossref
ReV. Stat. § , volume 316 , issue 3 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Id
, volume 316
Id
)(b) , volume 316
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,417
RANK
386,928
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies