Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Need for Global Adoption and Adaptation of International Financial Reporting Standards: Post Enron Consequences and the Restoration of Confidence to Capital Markets Following the 2008 Financial and Stock Market Crises

Chapter, "Value Relevance of Accounting Information in capital Markets" IGI Global 2016

10 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2012 Last revised: 14 Mar 2016

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: September 8, 2012

Abstract

Many questions have been raised as to whether financial accounting has become more conservative. The value relevance and qualitative characteristics of accounting information have become topics of particular relevance given the role they have assumed in influencing the value judgment of investors (local or international) in deciding whether or not to invest in a certain market. Given the quality of accounting information – which has resulted in misleading and inaccurate information (amongst many other low quality attributes), it became evident, particularly following Enron's collapse, to adopt improved, enhanced, better quality standards: namely, International Financial Reporting Standards.

This paper considers the background culminating in the adoption of IFRS – as well as the need for the adoption of IFRS. It also highlights why the value relevance of accounting information is also of vital significance in certain emerging economies and why the successful implementation of IFRS in these jurisdictions may be crucial in restoring investor confidence – particularly in the aftermath of stock market crashes in these economies.

La version française de ce document peut être consulté: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2147206

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Need for Global Adoption and Adaptation of International Financial Reporting Standards: Post Enron Consequences and the Restoration of Confidence to Capital Markets Following the 2008 Financial and Stock Market Crises (September 8, 2012). Chapter, "Value Relevance of Accounting Information in capital Markets" IGI Global 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2143610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2143610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,316
RANK
294,906
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies