Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Benefits and Revenue Costs of Tax Deferral

Investment Company Institute White Paper, September 2012

56 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2012

Peter J. Brady

Investment Company Institute

Date Written: September 11, 2012

Abstract

Key Findings: A deferral of tax is not equivalent to a tax exclusion or a tax deduction. Exclusions and deductions reduce taxes paid in the year taken, but do not affect taxes in any future year. Tax deferrals — such as the deferral of tax on compensation contributed to an employer-provided retirement plan — reduce taxes paid in the year of deferral, but increase taxes paid in the year the income is recognized.

The benefits an individual receives from deferring tax on compensation (and, equivalently, the revenue foregone by the government) cannot be calculated by simply multiplying the amount of compensation deferred by the individual’s marginal tax rate. The simple calculations used to quantify the tax benefits and revenue costs of tax exclusions and tax deductions do not apply to tax deferrals.

As a rough approximation, the benefits of tax deferral are equivalent to facing a zero rate of tax on investment income. The benefits of facing a zero rate on investment income will depend on how much investment income is generated by the deferral and how much tax revenue would otherwise have been generated by that income. Thus, factors that influence the benefits of tax deferral (and, equivalently, the costs to the government in terms of foregone tax revenue) include the rate of return earned on investments, the length of deferral, and — to the extent that investments produce capital gains — the frequency with which capital gains are realized.

The relationship between the benefits of tax deferral and an individual’s marginal tax rate on ordinary income is complex. The benefits of tax deferral (and the revenue costs) do not increase proportionately with the marginal tax rate that applies to compensation. In fact, the benefits can decline as marginal tax rates increase. Further, the magnitude of the tax benefits depends on tax rates other than the marginal tax rate on ordinary income at the time a retirement plan contribution is made. The magnitude also is affected by the marginal tax rate that would apply to investment income generated during the deferral period, and the marginal tax rate on ordinary income at the time assets are distributed.

For a range of investment portfolios and distribution methods, there is little difference in the tax benefits per dollar of deferred compensation among individuals in the top four federal income tax brackets (marginal tax rates of 25 percent, 28 percent, 33 percent, and 35 percent). As this paper will demonstrate, controlling for age and assuming no change in marginal tax rates over time, the difference in the tax benefits (and the revenue costs) of deferral for an individual in the 25 percent federal income tax bracket and for an individual in the 35 percent income tax bracket is typically 3 cents or less per dollar of deferred compensation.

An individual’s age typically will be more important than an individual’s marginal tax rate in determining the tax benefits of deferral. For example, in realistic simulations for a variety of investments, the tax benefits per dollar of deferred compensation are greater for a 45-year-old in the 15 percent federal income tax bracket than for a 60-year-old in the 35 percent federal income tax bracket.

Keywords: retirement, tax deferral, tax expenditures

JEL Classification: H24, J26, J32

Suggested Citation:

Brady, Peter J., The Tax Benefits and Revenue Costs of Tax Deferral (September 11, 2012). Investment Company Institute White Paper, September 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
The present value of the stream of foregone tax revenue is the sum of the present values of the foregone tax revenue in each year. That is
This equivalence will hold provided the rate of return is the same as the government's discount rate. As explained in the text, it is assumed that the two rates are equal throughout the paper. For an explanation of why it would be inappropriate to assume otherwise, see "Rate of Return and Discount Rate Assumptions Used When Estimating Present Values
From Federal Reserve Board Posted: 2012-08-30
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
385,002
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies