Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jesus and the Anti-Injunction Act

Tax Notes, Vol. 136, No. 11, September 10, 2012

14 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2012

Bryan Camp

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Biblical scholars have debated the story of the resurrection for millennia. Some read the story literally, others with greater consideration to the purpose the story-writers had in reciting the story.

In the recent case of National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius. the high priests of the law declared that section 7421 (the Anti-Injunction Act (AIA)) did not bar federal courts from hearing a challenge to what Congress called a penalty, codified in section 5000A. The penalty will be imposed on taxpayers who fail to obtain requisite health insurance starting in 2014.

What is striking to me is the Supreme Court’s literalist approach. The nub of its reasoning is that the AIA only applies to suits involving a tax, and Congress called section 5000A a penalty. Although I understand the desire of all parties — and apparently all the Supreme Court justices — to get to the fun constitutional stuff, the myopic focus on the word ‘‘tax’’ obscures the law. Although the AIA’s purpose cannot be untethered from its words, neither should those words be read in isolation from its purpose. Both text and purpose provide the limits of rational interpretation.

The thesis of this article is by ignoring the purpose of the AIA, as demonstrated by its legal history, the Court's literalist interpretation becomes a mischievous exercise in word-chopping. While I continue to believe that the Court misinterpreted the AIA, my point in this article is that there was a sounder basis for deciding that the AIA did not apply.

Part A of this article gives the legal history of the AIA. Part B sketches out the two issues presented to the Court and how the Court resolved them, showing the tension between a literalist and purposeful interpretation of the statute. Part C considers the practical implications of the Court’s holding for future AIA cases. It points out how some taxpayers can now avoid the AIA, not only regarding the section 5000A penalty but also other ‘‘penalties’’ in the code. It explains how a purposeful approach would have been a superior rationale. Although both a literalist and purposeful approach allow the Court to get to the constitutional merits in this case, their differences, though small, are both profound and perennial — much like the risen Jesus problem.

Keywords: statutory interpretation, legislative history, legal history, Anti-Inunction Act, Supreme Court, interpretation, textualist, literalist, Obamacare, ACA, Affordable Health Care Act

JEL Classification: K10, K34, K42, K40

Suggested Citation:

Camp, Bryan T., Jesus and the Anti-Injunction Act (2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 136, No. 11, September 10, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
531,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies