Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Government Entities in Public Pensions?

4 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2012

Christopher B. Tobe

Hackett Robertson Tobe

Date Written: September 10, 2012

Abstract

There has been some shock that non-government employees can participate in public pensions designed for government employees. While most of the press has been on union related officials and government association lobbyists in plans, in Kentucky the practice is much deeper and pervasive. Since most taxpayer pension benefits are secret it is hard to tell how pervasive this practice is around the country. As a trustee for Kentucky the deeper I looked the more disturbing I found the additional risks involved with allowing non-government entities into government pensions.

I have heard from other public plans that the IRS is starting to survey the prevalence of non-profits in government plans. Public Pension plans across the country need to increase their transparency and inventory the riskier non-profits in their plans.

Keywords: state, pension, retirement, public, lobbyists, union, benefits

JEL Classification: G23, G38, G28

Suggested Citation:

Tobe, Christopher B., Non-Government Entities in Public Pensions? (September 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2144365 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2144365
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,446
RANK
511,635
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Pension Risk Management eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies