Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Convergences and Divergences Related to Fair Value

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 3 (2) pp. 81-88, 2012

8 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2013

Ionica Oncioiu

Tomis Constanta University

Florin Razvan Oncioiu

University of Agronomic Sciences and Veterinary Medicine of Bucharest

Daniela Nenciu

Dimitrie Cantemir University of Constanta

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Many authors present the advantages of fair value accounting, but others contest this concept, because of its volatility and subjective tendency of the models used for the evaluation. The advantages of fair value include utility, relevance, transparency and superior accuracy of the results, provides more clarity to the financial statements, it provides a total accounting of the comparable value and it gives more liability to the manager. However, critics of fair value accounting do not provide credible alternatives. Do we go back to historical cost accounting, wherein the financial assets are stated at outdated values and hence are not relevant or reliable? In the current crisis, a question is: Should assets be marked down to their current throw away prices, as companies may not want to sell them at those values? This paper analyses this question, and various controversial issues related to the concept of fair value as it is currently presented by IASB and FASB.

Keywords: Fair Value, Standards, Accounting, Assets, Liabilities

JEL Classification: L26

Suggested Citation:

Oncioiu, Ionica and Razvan Oncioiu, Florin and Nenciu, Daniela, Convergences and Divergences Related to Fair Value (2012). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 3 (2) pp. 81-88, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2145475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Fair Value Measurements, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No
FASB , issue 157 Posted: 2011
International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards Foundation
IASB Posted: 2011
A Leonard
Liabilities and How to Account for Them: An Exploratory Essay Posted: 2002
T Van , G Whittington
Deprival Value and Fair Value: A Reinterpretation and Reconciliation, Accounting and Business Research Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,505
RANK
487,221
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies