Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Corporate Web Reporting Practices in India

The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XI, No. 1, January 2012, pp. 7-19

Posted: 18 Sep 2012

Pooja Malhotra

Geeta Institute of Management and Technology

Ritika Makkar

Sir Padampat Singhania University

Date Written: September 17, 2012

Abstract

This study was conducted to know the extent of web reporting practices in the Indian corporate sector and inter-sector comparison of web reporting practices. A sample of 50 companies from different sectors was covered for this purpose. The analysis of results of the study shows that about 80% of the sample companies provided mandatory and voluntary information. The banking sector provided financial information to a greater extent compared to the other sectors. Balance sheet and profit and loss account have been provided in a majority of the cases, and only a few companies provided the director’s report and auditor’s report. Most of the companies provided information about the company profile, company history, company products and services, etc. and did not give any relevant information from the user’s point of view. Results show that the Indian companies have started using the Internet as a medium for reporting. Though the percentage of companies giving information for investor’s use is not very high, there are chances of an increasing trend in the Indian corporate sector. The percentage of Indian companies reporting via Internet is low compared to other advanced countries, but will gain importance in the future. The paper suggests that greater stress should be given to providing up-to-date financial information and to including full annual report while presenting information on websites. Awareness should be created among various users regarding corporate web reporting, and users’ perception should be kept in mind while providing web disclosures.

Suggested Citation:

Malhotra, Pooja and Makkar, Ritika, A Study of Corporate Web Reporting Practices in India (September 17, 2012). The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance, Vol. XI, No. 1, January 2012, pp. 7-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2147683
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,902
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies