Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Secrecy and Tax Transparency – The Relevance of Confidentiality in Tax Law Country Report: Canada

Forthcoming in Kristoffersson, Eleonor, Lang, Michael, Pistone, Pasqual, Schuch, Josef, Staringer, Claus, and Storck, Alfred (eds.), TAX SECRECY AND TAX TRANSPARENCY: THE RELEVANCE OF CONFIDENTIALITY IN TAX LAW, PART 1 AND 2, Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, Bern, Bruxelles, New York, Oxford, Wien, 2013

32 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2012 Last revised: 1 Nov 2013

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 17, 2012

Abstract

Canadian National Report prepared for the Vienna University of Economics and Business, Conference on tax secrecy and transparency, Rust, Austria, July, 2012. The aim of the project is to assess how different countries regard the treatment of tax information and tax secrecy. Topics include the collection of data, the sharing of information domestically and internationally, interaction of tax rules with related regulatory rules, and access to taxpayer information by the public. This report discusses Canada's relatively low profile in the global market for offshore financial services. Overall, Canada’s tax regime attempts to strike a balance between protecting taxpayer rights to privacy and confidentiality, and ensuring that the government has sufficient information about taxpayers in order to enforce its own laws, as well as to cooperate with efforts by other countries to enforce their tax laws in respect of their residents who invest in Canada.

Keywords: taxation, secrecy, transparency, financial sector, multinational, corporate law, disclosure, confidentiality, privacy, tax administration, FOIA, information sharing

JEL Classification: D8, D82, F23, L71, L72, K22, E62, H2, H23, H25, H26, K33, K34, A13, D7, D71, D73, D78, M1, M14

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, Tax Secrecy and Tax Transparency – The Relevance of Confidentiality in Tax Law Country Report: Canada (September 17, 2012). Forthcoming in Kristoffersson, Eleonor, Lang, Michael, Pistone, Pasqual, Schuch, Josef, Staringer, Claus, and Storck, Alfred (eds.), TAX SECRECY AND TAX TRANSPARENCY: THE RELEVANCE OF CONFIDENTIALITY IN TAX LAW, PART 1 AND 2, Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, Bern, Bruxelles, New York, Oxford, Wien, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2148091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
RSC 1985, c P-21, s , volume 8
Crossref
Investigations Manual, Part 2 -Tax and GST: Chapter 26 -Exchange of Information and Liaison (Ottawa: Canada Customs and Revenue Agency Posted: 2002-11-19
Canada
Income Tax Act s 241(4)(d)(i)
Canada
Income Tax Act s 241(4)(d)(vi)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
592
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,376
RANK
104,970
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies