Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Study of Accounting and Reporting Practises of Commercial Banks for Investments in India

13 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2012

G. S. Popli

Delhi School of Bussiness , VIPS; Delhi School of Business

Megha Jain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 18, 2012

Abstract

The Indian economy entered a phase of transition from a semi-controlled economy to a market-controlled economy in the early 1990s. The process of economic reforms which had been previously progressing at a snail’s pace, gained momentum during this time. The hastened process of reforms brought about far-reaching changes in the Indian Economy in general and financial sector in particular. The banking sector, which is an important part of the financial system, in fact witnessed such radical changes in all the spheres of it’s working that it seemed to have undergone a mini revolution in India.

In today’s challenging and competitive environment, the matter of designing appropriate strategies for improving the efficiency of accounting and reporting practices of commercial banks in accomplishing the investment and wealth maximization objectives is of utmost importance. It has made a path for multinational companies to access the Indian financial markets and ultimately resulting in substantial growth in the inflow of foreign direct investment and portfolio investment in India. Transpancy in bank disclosure reduces the level of information asymmetry and boasts investor’s confidence in the Indian Banking Industry.

This study examines the disclosure practices of Commercial Banks in India by analyzing their strengths and weaknesses. The index of disclosure has been used in this study to evaluate annual reports of some Commercial Banks in Public Sector, Private Sector and Foreign Banks in India. The paper highlights the significance of studying commercial bank’s disclosures practices for investment in India.

Keywords: economic reforms, investment, foreign direct investment, portfolio investment and disclosure practices

Suggested Citation:

Popli, Gurmukh Singh and Popli, Gurmukh Singh and Jain, Megha, Study of Accounting and Reporting Practises of Commercial Banks for Investments in India (September 18, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2148308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2148308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
on 'Guidelines for Classification and Valuation of Investments by Banks issued by the Reserve Bank of India Posted: 2000-01
Prudential Norms for Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio by Banks Posted: 20010-07-11
Practical Non Parametric , W J Statistic , Conover
, volume 2
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,646
RANK
361,062
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Macroeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies