Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treatment of Team Performances Under Art. 17 of the OECD Model Convention

World Tax Journal, p. 262, October 2010

29 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2012

Karolina Tetlak

University of Warsaw

Date Written: October 01, 2010

Abstract

This article discusses the tax treatment of entertainment and sports team performances under Art. 17 of the OECD Model. A comprehensive description of tax implications of earning foreign income is provided for team members and teams. For the purposes of the analysis, team members have been divided into performing and non-performing employees, and performing and non-performing contractors. The review of the tax treatment of income earned by teams covers indirect payments to performers, income in respect of performance and non-performance profits. The discussion of the current international tax system for entertainment and sports teams is followed by an examination of the possible application of alternative taxation models, including those already used by the OECD Model in relation to other items of income. Proposals such as a modification of the scope of Art. 17, income and time thresholds, limitation of Art. 17 to certain situations and gross-basis taxation are considered.

Keywords: Athletes, taxation, international tax law, sports tax law, OECD Model Tax Convention, sportsmen, tax

Suggested Citation:

Tetlak, Karolina, Tax Treatment of Team Performances Under Art. 17 of the OECD Model Convention (October 01, 2010). World Tax Journal, p. 262, October 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
188
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
RANK
368,259
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies