Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stateless Income's Challenge to Tax Policy, Part 2

Tax Notes, September 17, 2012, p.1431

USC Law and Economics Research Papers Series No. C12-14

USC Legal Studies Research Papers Series No. 12-22

19 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2012

Edward D. Kleinbard

University of Southern California Gould School of Law, Deceased

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This report considers the tax policy implications of the phenomenon of stateless income. Stateless income is income that is derived for tax purposes by a multinational group from business activities in a country other than the domicile of the group’s ultimate parent company but that is subject to tax only in a jurisdiction that is neither the source of the production factors through which it was derived nor the domicile of the group’s parent company. Google Inc.’s "Double Irish Dutch Sandwich" structure is one familiar example.

Part 1 of this report, available at Tax Notes, Sept. 5, 2011, p. 1021, Doc 2011-14206, 2011 TNT 172-5, showed that the U.S. tax rules governing income from foreign direct investments often are misapprehended: In practice they do not operate as a worldwide system of taxation, but as an ersatz variant on territorial systems, with hidden benefits and costs when compared with standard territorial regimes. That claim holds whether one analyzes these rules as a cash tax matter or through the lens of financial accounting standards. Part 1 of this report rejected as inconsistent with the data any suggestion that current U.S. law renders U.S. multinational firms less competitive when compared with their territorial-based competitors.

Stateless income privileges multinational corporations over domestic ones by offering the former the prospect of capturing "tax rents" — low-risk inframarginal returns derived by moving income from high-tax foreign countries to low-tax ones. Other important implications of stateless income include reduced coherence in the concept of geographic source; the systematic bias toward offshore rather than domestic investment; the more surprising bias in favor of investment in high-tax foreign countries to provide the feedstock for the generation of low-tax foreign income in other countries; erosion of the U.S. domestic tax base through debt-financed tax arbitrage; many instances of deadweight loss; and, essentially uniquely to the United States, the exacerbation of the lockout phenomenon, under which the price that U.S. corporations pay to enjoy the benefits of dramatically low foreign tax rates is the accumulation of extraordinary amounts of earnings ($1.4 trillion or more, by the most recent estimates) and cash outside the United States.

Part 2 of this report picks up at this point. It is adapted and condensed from Edward D. Kleinbard, "The Lessons of Stateless Income," 65 Tax L. Rev. 99 (2011).

Part 2 demonstrates that policy conclusions that are useful in a world without stateless income do not follow once its presence is considered. The report identifies and develops the significance of implicit taxation as an underappreciated assumption in the capital ownership neutrality model that has been advanced as an argument for why the United States should adopt a territorial tax system, and it shows how stateless income tax planning undermines this critical assumption.

The report concludes that policymakers face a Hobson’s choice between the highly implausible (a territorial tax system with teeth) and the manifestly imperfect (worldwide tax consolidation). Because the former is so unrealistic, while the latter’s imperfections can be reduced through the choice of tax rate, the report ultimately recommends a worldwide tax consolidation solution.

Suggested Citation:

Kleinbard, Edward D., Stateless Income's Challenge to Tax Policy, Part 2 (2012). Tax Notes, September 17, 2012, p.1431, USC Law and Economics Research Papers Series No. C12-14, USC Legal Studies Research Papers Series No. 12-22 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,327
RANK
159,889
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Who Bears the Corporate Tax? A Review of What We Know

By Alan J. Auerbach

The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages

By Wiji Arulampalam, Michael P. Devereux, ...

Corporate Taxes and Union Wages in the United States

By R. Alison Felix and James R. Hines Jr.

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies