Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Connection between Competitiveness and International Taxation

Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, pp. 349, 2012

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-29

27 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2012

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: Spring 2012

Abstract

The term “competitiveness” is a highly elastic concept that has been used in a myriad of different ways. However, in discussions of the connection between international taxation and competitiveness, there are two conceptions of competitiveness that are frequently used, but are not always clearly distinguished from one another. One conception emphasizes the competition between firms to be profitable and grow by acquiring productive assets. The other conception focuses on the competition between states to attract investment capital and people by varying their regulations.

Those two conceptions of competitiveness each imply a distinct definition of a domestic industry and a different mechanism whereby taxation affects competitiveness. Those two views also track popular positions in long standing policy debates. For example, each view is associated with a different tax neutrality benchmark. The first view is closely associated with capital export neutrality, whereas the second view is closely associated with capital ownership neutrality. Those two views also track opposing positions in the “Who Is Us?” debate from the 1990s.

Keywords: International Taxation, investment, international competitiveness, tax competition, foreign direct investment, asset acquisition, international finance, tax incentives, cross-border transactions, foreign tax credits, capital export neutrality, capital import neutrality, capital ownership neutrality

JEL Classification: F21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., The Connection between Competitiveness and International Taxation (Spring 2012). Tax Law Review, Vol. 65, pp. 349, 2012, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 12-29, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,667
RANK
177,163
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies