Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Federal Government’s War on Marriage AKA the Marriage Penalty Tax: Unfair to Individuals and Harmful to Society

Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2013:107-130

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2012-79

40 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2012 Last revised: 6 Feb 2014

Floyd Carpenter

Murray State University, College of Business, Accounting Department (Deceased)

Dennis R. Lassila

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Abstract

Empirical research has shown that public policy such as tax and transfer programs have had a deleterious effect on marital stability. This study analyzes the cost to individuals of various aspects of the marriage penalty tax (MPT) and thereby how it discourages marriage and how it harms both individuals and society at large. Decline of the family, especially married couples, is regarded as one of the critical problems facing American society. Past research indicates that the MPT, due to its negative impact on marital stability and two-parent families, results in major social and economic costs, such as higher rates of children living in poverty, lower education, higher unemployment, more crime, and poorer health. Given its harm, we conclude that the MPT should be eliminated from the tax code. Opponents to repealing the marriage penalty have complained that ‘higher-income’ taxpayers receive disproportionate benefit. However, this research shows that the MPT has an equally negative effect on couples in the lowest income categories, particularly with its impact on the earned income tax credit. Further, regardless of a couple’s income level, the marriage penalty is detrimental to marriage, and thus, to society overall. Tax laws, as part of public policy, should foster, not hamper, two-parent families and their corresponding economic benefits such as improved employment, better public health, and lower crime.

Keywords: marriage penalty tax, public policy, tax law, Internal Revenue Code, family

JEL Classification: A13, D60, D63, I32, I38, J12, J18, K34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Floyd and Lassila, Dennis R. and Smith, Murphy, The Federal Government’s War on Marriage AKA the Marriage Penalty Tax: Unfair to Individuals and Harmful to Society. Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues, Vol. 16, No. 2, 2013:107-130, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2012-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2149247 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2149247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,033
RANK
361,062
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies