Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legal Salience of Taxation

55 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2012

Andrew T. Hayashi

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: September 14, 2012

Abstract

The enforcement of tax laws affects the distribution of tax burdens. Many tax enforcement regimes incorporate taxpayer-initiated administrative procedures for adjusting tax liabilities. For these procedures, individual decisions to seek administrative relief are the first causal link in the chain of actions leading to tax adjustments, decisions that can be driven by factors that are arbitrary from the perspective of the tax law and vary across individuals, effectively resulting in heterogeneous enforcement. This effect can undermine the fairness and efficiency of the tax system, but has been largely ignored. Using a novel dataset, I study the property tax appeals process and find that the salience of the property tax has a large effect on the probability of appealing. Although tax scholars have studied market and political responses to tax salience, I report the first evidence of how salience affects individuals’ use of the legal system and introduce the concept of “legal salience.” I find that legal salience heterogeneity, unwittingly induced by government policy and private actors, effectively shifts the property tax burden in New York City toward certain mortgagors, who are more likely to be racial minorities, foreign-born, and working families with children. I argue that because enforcement effects can cause the actual assignment of tax liabilities to differ from the assignment stipulated under the law, tax laws should be evaluated in light of the pattern of enforcement that can reasonably be expected to arise rather than under an assumption of perfect enforcement.

Keywords: Tax Salience, Heterogeneity, Enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Hayashi, Andrew T., The Legal Salience of Taxation (September 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2151867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2151867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,419
RANK
248,130
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies