Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Manipulating the Conduct of Beneficiaries with Conditional Gifts

Estate Planning Developments for Texas Professionals, October 2012

4 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2012

Gerry W. Beyer

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Clients have a strong desire to transfer the fruits of their lifelong efforts upon death to the individuals they prefer. Though not constitutionally protected, this ability is often viewed as a right, rather than a mere privilege. See Irving Trust Co. v. Day, 314 U.S. 556, 562 (1942) (“Rights of succession to the property of a deceased, whether by will or by intestacy, are of statutory creation, and the dead hand rules succession only by sufferance. Nothing in the Federal Constitution forbids the legislature of a state to limit, condition, or even abolish the power of testamentary disposition over property within its jurisdiction.”). Although the Texas legislature and the courts are unlikely to eliminate this privilege, they often get involved when a client attempts to place restrictions on what the beneficiary must do or not do to receive the offered bounty.

Some conditions are relatively benign such as a provision requiring property to be held in trust until the beneficiary reaches a specified age. However, testators and settlors may use conditions to control or influence nuances of the beneficiary’s behavior. For example, a testator left his house and $30,000 to his wife on the condition that she smoke five cigarettes per day for the rest of her life to get even for her distain of his practice. See Widow Fumes at Order to Start Smoking, SAN ANTONIO EXPRESS-NEWS, Sept. 10, 1993, at 6A. Will the court force a beneficiary to engage in a dangerous habit to receive the property? If not, would the wife get the property free of the condition or would the property pass under other provisions of the testator’s will? What about a will provision providing $500 per month for the police officer who gives the most traffic tickets to motorists for double-parking? Dead Man Had Will, Way to Get Double-Parkers, WASH. POST, Aug. 25, 1998, at A2.

This article explores conditional gifts and focuses on how to increase the likelihood that the court will enforce the conditions.

Keywords: conditional gifts, wills, Texas, estate planning

JEL Classification: K11

Suggested Citation:

Beyer, Gerry W., Manipulating the Conduct of Beneficiaries with Conditional Gifts (2012). Estate Planning Developments for Texas Professionals, October 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2152003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
584
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,659
RANK
106,875
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies