Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Efficiency of Accounts Receivable Management in Polish Institutions

European Financial Systems, 2012

11 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2012 Last revised: 25 Dec 2012

Grzegorz Michalski

Technical University in Košice (TUKE); Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu - Faculty of Engineering and Economics

Date Written: September 28, 2012

Abstract

Accounts receivable management should contribute to realization of basic financial purpose of an enterprise which is the realization of such strategy which is linked with its owner (or its stake holders) wealth maximization. The enterprise performance and value maximization strategy realization is more effective when it is realized in the most efficiency way. It is also executed with a focus on risk and uncertainty (Gentry 1988, Michalski 2012). This paper presents the consequences that can result from operating risk to determine the level of accounts receivable in the enterprise. The change in the level of accounts receivables in an enterprise increases net working capital level and influence costs of holding and managing accounts receivables. As illustration material is used data collected from 2009 and 2010 financial statements of over 3000 Polish enterprises.

Keywords: efficiency of decisions, accounts receivable management, entrepreneurial finance

JEL Classification: G32, G11, M11, D81, O16, P33, P34

Suggested Citation:

Michalski, Grzegorz and Michalski, Grzegorz, Efficiency of Accounts Receivable Management in Polish Institutions (September 28, 2012). European Financial Systems, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2153895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2153895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,428
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,663
RANK
31,209
11 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Sensitivity Indicator as Correction Factor for Cost of Capital Rate

By Grzegorz Michalski

The Typical Levels of Liquidity Measures in Small Firms

By Grzegorz Michalski

Target Liquid Balances and Value of the Firm

By Grzegorz Michalski

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies