Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Taxes, Tax Exemptions and What They Reveal About Elderly Migration

Posted: 29 Sep 2012

Ali Sina Önder

University of Portsmouth

Herwig J. Schlunk

Vanderbilt University - Law School

Date Written: May 20, 2011

Abstract

We use the U.S. elderly migration data for 1995-2000 to test how taxes and specific tax exemptions affect migration decisions of the elderly population. We show that the elderly prefer to migrate to states with low inheritance and estate tax, high property tax, low price level, low amount of Federal revenue transfers, high level of local amenities, and high temperatures. In addition, exemption of prescription drugs from sales tax and the existence of pension exemptions affect elderly in-migration positively and significantly.

Keywords: Tiebout Hypothesis, Migration, State and Local Taxes, Tax Exemptions

JEL Classification: H24, H50, H72, H73

Suggested Citation:

Önder, Ali Sina and Schlunk, Herwig, State Taxes, Tax Exemptions and What They Reveal About Elderly Migration (May 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2153610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2153610
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,634
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies