Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Deductibility of Cross-Border Giving: Australia Gives No Quarter

U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 605

15 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2012

Miranda Stewart

University of Melbourne - Law School; New York University School of Law; Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

Australia’s tax law concerning deductibility of gifts to charities imposes one of the highest barriers to cross-border philanthropy in the world. All countries impose some restrictions on tax concessions for foreign donations or activities of charities. However, Australia’s approach is strict compared with the approach of many other countries especially in the European Union. A Bill currently before the Parliament will codify and tighten the existing restrictions. This Working Paper applies Australian tax law to a Case Study prepared for the International Fiscal Association 66th Congress, Boston, 2012 and considers the policy for the strict Australian approach.

Keywords: tax law, charity, philanthropy, gift deductibility, international tax

JEL Classification: K00, K34

Suggested Citation:

Stewart, Miranda, Tax Deductibility of Cross-Border Giving: Australia Gives No Quarter (October 1, 2012). U of Melbourne Legal Studies Research Paper No. 605, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2154763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2154763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
G E Dal Pont
Law of Charity Posted: 2010
See Mcgregor-Lowndes , M
Does Charity Begin and End at Home for Tax Exemptions Posted: 1998
Murray
All Things Charitable: High Court Examines the Way for-Word' (2009) 43 Taxation in Australia 502; D Mortimer
Law Institute Journal , volume 50 Posted: 2010
Word Investments
, volume 204 , p. 217 - 235 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,186
RANK
407,466
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Melbourne Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies