Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is Your ROA? An Investigation of the Many Formulas for Calculating Return on Assets

Academy of Educational Leadership Journal, 15 (Special Issue), 79-91

13 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2012 Last revised: 20 Jul 2018

Jeffrey Jay Jewell

Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Jeffrey A. Mankin

Finally Learn; Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This paper compares the eleven different versions of computing return on assets that can be found in current business textbooks. To illustrate the practical differences between the different versions, each version of ROA is calculated for eight slightly different example firms. The results are then compared and analyzed. Pros and cons are then discussed for each version of ROA. A practical ROA taxonomy is proposed to organize the several different versions and to improve comparability.

Keywords: financial ratios, financial analysis, return on assets

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G32

Suggested Citation:

Jewell, Jeffrey Jay and Mankin, Jeffrey A., What is Your ROA? An Investigation of the Many Formulas for Calculating Return on Assets (2011). Academy of Educational Leadership Journal, 15 (Special Issue), 79-91, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2155943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
2 Citations
Deniz Parlak , MEHMET EMIN YILDIZ , Naci Yılmaz
The Level of Convergence to Shari’Ah Principles and Corporate Profitability
RIBAF-D-23-00020 · 18 Pages · Posted: 9 Jun 2023 · Downloads: 13
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Razvan Stefanescu , Ramona Dumitriu
Statistica Afacerilor: Aplicaţii, partea a opta (Business Statistics: Exercises, Part 8)
31 Pages · Posted: 28 Oct 2023 · Last revised: 23 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 44
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,119
RANK
2,964
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Sorry State of Affairs: The Problems with Financial Ratio Education

By Jeffrey A. Mankin and Jeffrey Jay Jewell

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies