Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Baudrillarian View of Accounting Goodwill

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 4 (1) p. 95-105, 2013

12 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2013

Syaiful Anwar

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional “Veteran” Jawa Timur

Diah Hari Suryaningrum

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jawa Timur

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This paper emanates from the understanding of hyperreality – reality, and on the other hand based on the Baudrillarian postmodernist perspective. Thus, we aim to understand hyperreality and reality in accounting from the perspective of Baudrillarian pospodernism. A thesis by Macintosh indicated that today’s financial markets operate detached from reality in hyperreality, and there does not exist anything stable to support the financial economy in the “order of simulacrum.” Consequently, vital accounting information no longer refers to real references, which mean that we live in a world of free-floating signs. In the simulation era of today’s world, accounting, just like all other areas of knowledge, faces a crisis of representation. Goodwill is a hidden value that accounting standards define as the value of future economic benefit (internal goodwill) and the difference between fair value and book value of the firm (business combination). This paper concludes that accounting goodwill represents the order of simulacrum (era of simulacra). These orders of accounting for goodwill are as follows: first, era of proprietary; second, era of political economy; third, era of globalization; and finally, the virtual era. It is also suggested that understanding goodwill is important to determine whether information of goodwill has value relevance for decision-making.

Keywords: Baudrillarian Postmodernism, Hyperreality, Era of Simulacra, Accounting Goodwill

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Anwar, Syaiful and Suryaningrum, Diah Hari, A Baudrillarian View of Accounting Goodwill (2013). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 4 (1) p. 95-105, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2155203
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
R Ball
International Financial Accounting Standard: Pros and Cons from Investor" diunduh tanggal 22 Juli Posted: 2005
Crossref
F A Beams , J H Anthony , R P Clement , S H Lowensohn
Advance Accounting, Tenth Edition
A.R Posted: 2000
Boediono
Sambutan Gubernur Bank Indonesia Posted: 2008-12
A Chariri , S K S Hedro
Menguji kualitas standar hasil adopsi IFRS: Studi empiris pada PSAK No
Proceeding of Accounting National Symposium (Simposium Nasional Akuntansi), XIII, Purwokerto , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,798
RANK
355,843
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies