Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Accounting in the United Kingdom: The Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 4 (1) p. 63-78

16 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2013

Amer Qasim

Al Ain University of Science & Technology

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Naser M. Abughazaleh

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The accounting treatment of goodwill has been the source of much debate and controversy amongst standard setters and financial report preparers in UK and many other countries. There have been great difficulties in the definition, measurement and subsequent accounting treatment for goodwill. Despite this, goodwill is a significant asset in many companies, whose existence and value are maintained by considerable annual expenditure. Accounting for goodwill changed in the UK in 2005 through the combined effects of the new International Accounting Standards, IFRS 3, Business Combinations, and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. This paper critically examines, based on the accounting literature and professional standards, the change in accounting treatment for goodwill pursuant to international financial reporting standards (IFRSs) by reference to the UK accounting standards. It critically discusses and compares the former UK and new IFRS policies for goodwill accounting demonstrating the advantages of and arguments against the impairment-only approach to goodwill. It also highlights the sources of managerial discretion in testing goodwill for impairment and provides concluding remarks. Further studies are needed to examine the long-term effects of the impairment only approach to determine whether managers’ opportunistic choices or their incentives to convey their privately held information drive the recognition of goodwill impairments. The paper has implications for financial report prepares and users in highlighting conceptual issues of relevance that will arise in the application of the impairment-only approach to goodwill. It also provides a thorough review of the literature published on the accounting treatment for goodwill in the UK and provides avenues for future research.

Keywords: Goodwill Accounting, Impairment, International Accounting Standards, United Kingdom

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Qasim, Amer and Haddad, Ayman E. and Abughazaleh, Naser M., Goodwill Accounting in the United Kingdom: The Effect of International Financial Reporting Standards (2013). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 4 (1) p. 63-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2155197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
N Abughazaleh , O Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting Discretion in Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence'
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Accounting Standards Board
Discussion Paper, Goodwill and Intangible Assets Posted: 1993
Working Paper, Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1995
Accounting Standards Board
Financial Reporting Exposure Draft , volume 12 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,096
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,534
RANK
45,962
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies