Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Globalization of Tax Expenditure Reporting: Transplanting Transparency in India and the Global South

Tax Law and Development, Yariv Brauner and Miranda Stewart, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming

Osgoode CLPE Research Paper No. 43/2012

16 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2012 Last revised: 14 Dec 2012

Lisa Philipps

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: October 3, 2012

Abstract

This paper traces the rise of tax expenditure reporting in countries of the Global South, with a particular focus on India. It investigates why and how policy makers in some low and middle income countries are now moving to adopt a budgeting practice that originated in wealthy Western nations in the 1970s. I discuss the potential advantages of this trend, but also argue that there is a need for its champions to face up to some challenges and potential disadvantages of transplanting this form of fiscal transparency into different national contexts. These include methodological and political challenges that are well known to Western observers but are seldom fully acknowledged in the literature advocating adoption of tax expenditure reporting by developing countries. In addition, the chapter questions whether generic prescriptions are sufficiently attuned to local political, economic and institutional circumstances that may diminish the value of OECD-style tax expenditure reporting to receiving countries.

Keywords: tax expenditures, budgets, fiscal transparency, tax and development, India, comparative tax

JEL Classification: H20, H60, K34, O23

Suggested Citation:

Philipps, Lisa, The Globalization of Tax Expenditure Reporting: Transplanting Transparency in India and the Global South (October 3, 2012). Tax Law and Development, Yariv Brauner and Miranda Stewart, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing, Forthcoming, Osgoode CLPE Research Paper No. 43/2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2156484
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
Efficacy of Tax Incentives
Tax Expenditure Analysis" and its Relevance for India , volume 9 Posted: 1974
Management of Tax Expenditures in India' 19:47 Economic & Political Weekly M-122 Posted: 1984
Ibid
Crossref
R Kavita Rao , Bulbul Sen
Raising the Tax-Ratio by Reining in the "Tax Breaks:" An Agenda for Action
See the Reports of the Tax Reforms Committee headed by Raja Chelliah (1991-93), the Shome Committee, and the Kelkar Task Force on Direct Taxes Posted: 2002-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
RANK
425,064
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies