Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Oppressive Taxation: Abuse of Rule 54 and Section 1920 Threatens Justice

48 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2012

Patrick T. Gillen

Ave Maria School of Law

Date Written: October 4, 2012

Abstract

The author argues that neither Rule 54(d) nor 28 U.S.C. §1920 allow the taxation of discovery costs as a matter of law. He briefly surveys the structure and language of the Federal Rules and statutes involved and demonstrates that the structure and language of the Federal Rules create a carefully crafted system which provides for a very limited taxation of costs that should be limited to costs incurred for presentation of the case at the dispositive stage of the litigation. He goes on to demonstrate that courts have misapplied Rule 54(d) and §1920 by interpreting both to allow the taxation of discovery and lays out the reasons courts have given when reaching this erroneous result. He shows that the misapplication of Rule 54 and §1920 threatens the liberal discovery authorized by the rules, undermines the carefully crafted mechanism for addressing discovery benefits and burdens built into the rules, and fosters new discovery abuses. He concludes by considering two related proposals and discerns that the results of such amendments to either §1920 or to the Rules would be undesirable.

Keywords: taxation, Rule 54, discovery, litigation costs

Suggested Citation:

Gillen, Patrick T., Oppressive Taxation: Abuse of Rule 54 and Section 1920 Threatens Justice (October 4, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2156920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2156920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,238
RANK
493,078
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies