Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Efficiency in Budgeting – An Interventionist Approach to Spreadsheet Accuracy Testing

Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 32-41, 2012

10 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2012 Last revised: 7 May 2014

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Shijia Lu

Aarhus University - School of Business and Social Sciences

Date Written: October 3, 2012

Abstract

Over the past three decades, the reliance on sophisticated spreadsheets for budgeting has emerged as a standard in most organizations (Hesse and Hesse Scerno, 2009). Despite these technological advancements, rich empirical evidence documents that technologically induced ‘spreadsheet errors’ can substantially lower the accuracy of spreadsheets (Powell et al., 2009). These errors lead to suboptimal decision making and biased performance assessment.

The aim of this paper is to examine how spreadsheet error can be detected and prevented in the budgeting process. Our research design applies models of spreadsheet accuracy testing (SAT) from Kruck (2006) and Vessey (1985). We thereby illustrate the error reduction process in budgeting as well as future spreadsheet error prevention through the use of VBA. We base our analyses on a unique dataset (interviews, participating observations, technical artifacts) gathered through ‘action research’ at Chinese-Danish government organization, which uses budgets for assessing applications on research funding. Our results confirm and extend existing theory in the field of budgeting and SAT and provide interesting findings: First, we show that later spreadsheet error in budgeting is already rooted in a poor conceptualization of the budget template, in non-workflow-oriented imputation of data and poor documentation of data requirements. Second, we illustrate how the accuracy of spreadsheets substantially improves by introducing even simplistic VBA. Third, we present evidence that the flexibility of the budgeting template itself to changes in the organizational environment foster spreadsheet accuracy in the long term.

Keywords: spreadsheet error, spreadsheet accuracy testing (SAT), budget, non-profit and governmental organization, public management, VBA

JEL Classification: M10, M15, M4

Suggested Citation:

Lueg, Rainer and Lu, Shijia, Improving Efficiency in Budgeting – An Interventionist Approach to Spreadsheet Accuracy Testing (October 3, 2012). Problems and Perspectives in Management, Vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 32-41, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2156164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory // Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R G Bromley
Micros in Accounting
Journal of Accountancy , volume 160 , p. 134 - 145 Posted: 1985
P Brown , J Gould
An Experimental Study of People Creating Spreadsheets // ACM Transactions on Office Information Systems , volume 5 , p. 258 - 272 Posted: 1987
J P Caulkins , E L Morrison , T Weidemann
Spreadsheet Errors and Decision Making: Evidence from Field Interviews // Pittsburgh , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
369
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
RANK
184,656
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies