Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Corporate Transparency and Disclosure in Macedonia and the Region

15 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2012

Saso Arsov

Ss. Cyril and Methodius University - Facuty of Economics

Date Written: October 4, 2012

Abstract

The paper is based on a broad review of the relevant literature and an individual research using the documents and information made public by the analyzed companies. On the basis of their review, the Standard and Poor’s methodology was used to determine the so-called transparency and disclosure scores for the companies and for Macedonia as a whole. In addition, the sample was extended to include companies from Serbia and Croatia for which 11 items were taken as representative to make a comparison between the three countries.

The overall calculated TD score for Macedonia is 35 which is at the lower end of the respective scores calculated as averages for the six continents one decade ago. The results are especially weak in the area of board and management.

The banks are much more transparent. It also applies to the companies with a significant foreign ownership and that the correlation between the TD score and the turnover of the shares is positive = 0.32.

The companies in Croatia and Serbia are almost equaly transparrent and their Macedonian counterparts are lagging behind. The possible reasons for this include: the insider-based privatisation in many Macedonian companies, the smaller market turnover and thus lower interest in the company affairs, or perhaps the better regulation enforcement in the other two countries.

Suggested Citation:

Arsov, Saso, Recent Developments in Corporate Transparency and Disclosure in Macedonia and the Region (October 4, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2157186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2157186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Anat R Admati , Paul Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: Financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M Aksu , A Kosedag
Transparency and disclosure scores and their determinants in the Istanbul Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance: an International Review , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 277 - 296 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Mico Apostolov
Governance and enterprise restructuring -the case of Macedonia Posted: 2011
Crossref
V Beattie , W Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: a comprehensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
RANK
668,003
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of the Philippines

By Robert W. Mcgee

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Chile

By Robert W. Mcgee

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Colombia

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies