Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Research Tax Credit in the Policy Mix for Innovation: The French Case

Journal of Innovation Economics (Forthcoming)

26 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2012 Last revised: 21 Oct 2013

Zeting Liu

GREI (ULCO) / CLERSE UMR 8019 (Université Lille Nord de France)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyses the role of the French research tax credit (Crédit d’impôt recherche, CIR) in the French innovation policy mix by putting it into the international context. After comparing the French situation to other countries with two indicators – innovation performance and stimulating business R&D – and analysing the structure of CIR beneficiaries, we argues that under the current budget constraint, there are rooms of adjustment to reduce the cost CIR and to increase its efficiency. Meanwhile, we suggest that further empirical studies will help to fully assess the impact of CIR within the French innovation policy mix.

Keywords: innovation policy mix, tax incentives, French Research Tax Credit (CIR), business R&D, innovation performance

JEL Classification: E62, O31, O38

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Zeting, The Research Tax Credit in the Policy Mix for Innovation: The French Case (July 1, 2012). Journal of Innovation Economics (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2158914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
906,353
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies