Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marital Status After DOMA: Exploring the Practical Tax Implications

The CPA Journal, October, 40-43.

6 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2012 Last revised: 27 Aug 2014

Mark Jackson

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Sonja Pippin

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Richard Mason

University of Nevada, Reno

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) defines marriage as a legal union between one man and one woman for federal issues. The tax implications of this law has been that same-sex couples who were legally married in their state are treated as single taxpayers for federal tax purposes. However, the Attorney General has announced that the Justice Department would no longer enforce Section 3 of DOMA because the President believes that this part of the act is unconstitutional. This implies that while DOMA is still law, the Justice Department will not take any measures to uphold it. We examine the tax implications for same-sex couples that apparently have the option to file as single individuals (according to DOMA) or married couples (since the law is not being enforced).

Keywords: Defense of Marriage Act, DOMA, Filing status, Same-sex couples, Tax planning

JEL Classification: J12, J18, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Mark and Pippin, Sonja and Mason, Richard, Marital Status After DOMA: Exploring the Practical Tax Implications (2013). The CPA Journal, October, 40-43., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2159543 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2159543
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
CPAs should be sensitive to the needs of their clients in these situations, while continuing to provide frank and realistic tax advice
About the Authors: Mark Jackson, Ph.D. is an assistant professor of accounting at the University of Nevada Reno. He teaches accounting and tax research
Sonja Pippin , . D Ph , Cpa
is an associate professor of accounting at the University of Nevada Reno. She teaches income taxation of corporations, flow-through entities, estates and trusts as well as estate and gift tax. She can be contacted at sonjap@unr.edu; Richard Mason, Ph.D., J.D. is an associate professor of accounting at the University of Nevada Reno. He teaches individual taxation as well as tax strategies in business decisions
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,387
RANK
366,348
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies