Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law: Implicit Bias and the Earned Income Tax Credit

Implicit Racial Bias Across the Law, Justin D. Levinson and Robert J. Smith, eds., Cambridge University Press, April 2012

Emory Legal Studies Research Paper No. 12-228

21 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2012

Dorothy A. Brown

Emory University School of Law

Date Written: April 16, 2012

Abstract

Despite cultural progress in reducing overt acts of racism, stark racial disparities continue to define American life. This book is for anyone who wonders why race still matters and is interested in what emerging social science can contribute to the discussion.

The book explores how scientific evidence on the human mind might help to explain why racial equality is so elusive. This new evidence reveals how human mental machinery can be skewed by lurking stereotypes, often bending to accommodate hidden biases reinforced by years of social learning. Through the lens of these powerful and pervasive implicit racial attitudes and stereotypes, Implicit Racial Bias Across the Law examines both the continued subordination of historically disadvantaged groups and the legal system's complicity in the subordination.

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Dorothy Andrea, Tax Law: Implicit Bias and the Earned Income Tax Credit (April 16, 2012). Implicit Racial Bias Across the Law, Justin D. Levinson and Robert J. Smith, eds., Cambridge University Press, April 2012, Emory Legal Studies Research Paper No. 12-228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2159410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
U S Gen
Accounting Office, GAO-03-109, Major Management Challenges and Program Risks: Department of the Treasury , volume 11 Posted: 2003
E G See
Internal Revenue Service 1999 Data Book 39 tbl , volume 33 Posted: 1999
Zelenak See Also
, p. 1896 - 97
Crossref
Zelenak
, p. 1896 - 97
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,629
RANK
200,911
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies