Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS in India: Challenges and Opportunities

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 2, April 2012, pp. 6-32

Posted: 13 Oct 2012

Anubha Srivastava

Amity Business School

Prerna Bhutani

Amity University

Date Written: October 12, 2012

Abstract

Accounting is the lingua franca of business. In India, financial statements are guided by certain set of principles and concepts. In order to maintain uniformity, the accounting standards in India are issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in consultation with NACAS. The ICAI, recognizing the need to harmonize the diverse accounting policies and practices in use in India, constituted the Accounting Standards Board (ASB) on April 21, 1977. According to ICAI,1 “The composition of the ASB is fairly broad-based and ensures participation of all interest groups in the standard-setting process.” However, with the fast changing economy, liberalization, increasing foreign investment in the country, it has become now necessary for India to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). International Accounting Standards are issued by IASB, which was established in 1993; now known as IASC, it issues IFRS time to time to bring uniformity globally. In India, it is mandatory to comply with IFRS by 2011. Though there will be adoption of IFRS in a phased manner and an initiative has been taken by various professional bodies to organize training programs and seminars for imparting knowledge and creating awareness about IFRS, but the process of transformation is not as smooth and easy as it appears. Therefore, this paper is an attempt to find out up to what extent IFRS has been adopted by the organizations, what challenges and opportunities companies are facing regarding IFRS, and what are the measures that can be taken to make the process smooth and flawless. The paper focuses on the awareness and adoption of IFRS in India.

Suggested Citation:

Srivastava, Anubha and Bhutani, Prerna, IFRS in India: Challenges and Opportunities (October 12, 2012). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 2, April 2012, pp. 6-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160631
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,912
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies