Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electronic Business Reporting: A Study of Indian Corporate Sector

Electronic Business Reporting: A Study of Indian Corporate Sector, Innovation in Information and Communication Technology, Macmillan Publishers, pp. 299 - 316, 2011

12 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2012

Divya Verma Gakhar

Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University

Date Written: December 11, 2011

Abstract

Internet being the fastest mode of communication has the widest reach in the present world of globalised economies. Recently the companies have started reporting their financial results and other information relating to business on their websites. Almost every company today maintains its website. The present paper examines the disclosures of financial and non-financial information disclosures on websites of Indian companies. A sample of top 200 companies, which constitute BSE-200 Index, has been taken. The sample 200 companies come from 19 diverse industry sectors. To measure the type and extent of web disclosure by the sample companies a worksheet referred to as Internet Disclosure Index (IDI) has been prepared. Industry-wise classification of data has been made to establish its association with Internet disclosure index. The results summarized indicate that there is a positive association between industry sector to which a company belongs to and its internet reporting practices.

Keywords: financial disclosure, corporate reporting, voluntary reporting, industry sector

Suggested Citation:

Gakhar, Divya Verma, Electronic Business Reporting: A Study of Indian Corporate Sector (December 11, 2011). Electronic Business Reporting: A Study of Indian Corporate Sector, Innovation in Information and Communication Technology, Macmillan Publishers, pp. 299 - 316, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160605
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,108
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies