Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Barter Transactions: Theory, Combination Transactions, and Interest-Free Loans

Taxation of Barter Transactions: Theory, Combination Transactions, and Interest-Free Loans (Tel Aviv 2012)

SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 116

21 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2012 Last revised: 14 Feb 2013

David Elkins

Netanya College School of Law

Date Written: October 16, 2012

Abstract

This is the English abstract of a book recently published by the author in Hebrew entitled 'Taxation of Barter Transaction: Theory, Combination Transactions, and Interest-Free Loans' (Tel-Aviv 2012).

The book (and the attached abstract) first discusses the taxation of barter transactions from a theoretical perspective: the relationship between the taxation of barter transactions and the realization principle; and the identification, classification, and quantification of both income and expenses in barter transaction. The author presents a model to analyze the tax consequences of barter transaction, and he compares and contrasts his model to those in common usage, the 'notional income and expense model” and the 'avoided expenses' model.'

Subsequent parts discuss two specific types of barter transactions. The first is known is Israel as 'combination transactions,' in which a developer constructs a building on property owned by someone else, with the developer and the landowner eventually dividing between them either the apartment units or the proceeds from their sale. The second is interest-free loans. Here the book goes a bit beyond barter transactions. While interest-free loans to service providers are barter transactions (services in exchange for use of money), gift loans and interest-free loans from corporations their shareholders or from shareholders to the corporation are not. Nevertheless, a great deal can be learned by considering the similarities and, more importantly, the differences between these various loans.

Keywords: tax, barter, income, deduction, interest, loan, Israel, interest-free, interest-free loan

Suggested Citation:

Elkins, David, Taxation of Barter Transactions: Theory, Combination Transactions, and Interest-Free Loans (October 16, 2012). Taxation of Barter Transactions: Theory, Combination Transactions, and Interest-Free Loans (Tel Aviv 2012), SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 116, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2162754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,555
RANK
456,685
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies