Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground or as a Consulting Services Provider in Enhancing the Recruitment of Internal Auditors

48 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2012 Last revised: 6 Sep 2014

F. Greg Burton

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Matthew Starliper

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 2014

Abstract

This paper examines factors that influence job applicants’ willingness to apply for positions in internal auditing. We predict and find evidence that job applicants are dissuaded from applying for internal audit positions. In two separate experiments involving participants at seven universities, we discover that this phenomenon is most prevalent for applicants with business experience. Experienced applicants are 20 and 33 percent less willing to apply for a position if it is labeled as “internal audit” versus “accounting” in the two experiments, respectively. In addition, we find that the only experimental condition that increases interest in applying for an internal audit position for experienced applicants occurs when the position advertises the combination of (1) a short stint in internal auditing and then a move from internal audit into a management position and (2) work primarily related to consulting services rather than assurance services. As a potential explanation for these findings, we find evidence that participants believe other business professionals have negative stereotypes of internal auditing — which likely dissuade potential job applicants from applying to work in internal audit. The results should prove informative to practitioners, internal audit professional organizations, and business professionals concerned with high quality corporate governance.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Hiring Decisions, Management Training Ground, Recruiting, Assurance Services, Consulting Services

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49, G3, G34, M5, M51, M54

Suggested Citation:

Burton, Fielding Greg and Starliper, Matthew and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., The Effects of Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground or as a Consulting Services Provider in Enhancing the Recruitment of Internal Auditors (August 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2162611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2162611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Serving two masters: The association between audit committee internal audit oversight and internal audit activities
Accounting Horizons , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
U Anderson
Assurance and consulting services
Research Opportunities in Internal Auditing , p. 97 - 129 Posted: 2003
Altamonte Springs, FL: The Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 191 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,062
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,683
RANK
48,065
12 Citations
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A New Measure of Accounting Quality*

By Paul Hribar, Todd D. Kravet, ...

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

Do the SEC’s Enforcement Preferences Affect Corporate Misconduct?

By Simi Kedia and Shivaram Rajgopal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies