Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advisors’ Understanding of Tax Compliance for Choice of Business Form

Proceedings of 18th International Business Research Conference 2012

5 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2012

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 18, 2012

Abstract

Choosing an appropriate business form is important for those commencing business, as making the wrong choice may result in economic inefficiencies for both the business and the broader economy. The myriad of issues that need to be considered in this choice includes tax rate exposure, governance, equity raising, use of losses, sale of business and complexity.

Given the life-cycle of businesses and regressive nature of compliance costs for small enterprises, to what extent are tax compliance cost issues considered by advisors, and are they aware of the relevant empirical evidence?

This paper details a study that explored what advisors understanding of the tax compliance cost issues that can arise in terms of business forms. The findings suggest that advisors have limited knowledge of the empirical evidence about tax compliance cost which may adversely impact their advice on business formation which may have long term adverse economic implications.

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett, Advisors’ Understanding of Tax Compliance for Choice of Business Form (October 18, 2012). Proceedings of 18th International Business Research Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,428
RANK
467,335
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies