Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of CFOs’ Incentives and Earnings Management Ethics on Their Financial Reporting Decisions: The Mediating Role of Moral Disengagement

Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming

39 Pages Posted: 18 Oct 2012 Last revised: 13 Feb 2014

Cathy Beaudoin

University of Vermont

Anna Cianci

Wake Forest University

George T. Tsakumis

University of Delaware - Alfred Lerner College of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 27, 2013

Abstract

Despite regulatory reforms aimed at inhibiting aggressive financial reporting, earnings management persists and continues to concern practitioners, regulators, and standard setters. To provide insight into this practice and how to mitigate it, we conduct an experiment to examine the impact of two independent variables on CFOs’ discretionary expense accruals. One independent variable, incentive conflict, is manipulated at two levels (present, absent) – i.e., the presence or absence of a personal financial incentive that conflicts with a corporate financial incentive. The other independent variable is CFOs' earnings management ethics (“EM-Ethics”, high vs. low), measured as their assessment of the ethicalness of key earnings management motivations. We find that incentive conflict and EM-Ethics interact to determine CFOs’ discretionary accruals such that (a) in the presence of incentive conflict, CFOs with low (high) EM-Ethics tend to give in to(resist) the personal incentive by booking higher (lower) expense accruals; and (b) in the absence of an incentive conflict, CFOs with low (high) EM-Ethics tend to give in to (resist) the corporate incentive by booking lower (higher) expense accruals. We also find support for a mediated-moderation model in which CFOs’ level of EM-Ethics influences their moral disengagement tendencies which, in turn, differentially affect their discretionary accruals, depending on the presence or absence of incentive conflict. Theoretical and practical implications of these findings are discussed.

Keywords: earnings management, incentives, moral disengagement, dispositional ethicalness, ethics

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beaudoin, Cathy and Cianci, Anna and Tsakumis, George T., The Impact of CFOs’ Incentives and Earnings Management Ethics on Their Financial Reporting Decisions: The Mediating Role of Moral Disengagement (September 27, 2013). Journal of Business Ethics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2163797 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2163797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
98 References
J A Al-Khatib , M Y A Rawwas , S J Vitell
Organizational ethics in developing countries: a comparative analysis
Journal of Business , volume 55 , p. 309 - 322 Posted: 2004
B Arel , C A Beaudoin , A M Cianci
The impact of ethical leadership, the internal audit function, and moral intensity on a financial reporting decision
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 109 , p. 351 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
R Ball
International financial reporting standards (IFRS): Pros and cons for investors. Accounting & Business Research , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Bandura
Social foundation of thought and action: A social cognitive theory Posted: 1986
Load more
6 Citations
Paul J. Coram , James R. Frederickson , Matthew Pinnuck
Earnings management: Who do managers consider and what is the relative importance of ethics?
59 Pages · Posted: 15 Nov 2016 · Last revised: 24 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 412
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph F. Brazel , Lorenzo Lucianetti , Tammie Rech Schaefer
Reporting Concerns about Earnings Quality: An Examination of Corporate Managers
61 Pages · Posted: 26 Nov 2016 · Last revised: 29 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 205
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ashley West , Gary Fleischman
The Role of Trait and State Moral Disengagement on FIN 48 Earnings Management
48 Pages · Posted: 8 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 10 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 112
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muhammad Akhtar
Exploring the Role of Moral Disengagement in the Link Between Perceived Narcissistic Supervision and Employees' Organizational Deviance: A Moderated Mediation Model
Asian Journal of Social Psychology, Volume 21, Issue 4, December 2018 DOI/10.1111/ajsp.12323 · 14 Pages · Posted: 8 Feb 2019 · Last revised: 21 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 55
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
678
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,741
RANK
88,155
6 Citations
98 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies