Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Religiosity and Tax Avoidance

Journal of American Taxation Association, Spring 2013, 35(1): 53-84.

Posted: 20 Oct 2012 Last revised: 25 Mar 2013

Jeff P. Boone

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: October 19, 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we examine religiosity as one determinant of tax avoidance by corporate and individual taxpayers. Prior research suggests a relation between religiosity and risk aversion. Because aggressive tax avoidance strategies involve significant uncertainty and possible penalties and damage to reputation, we predict that higher levels of religiosity are associated with less aggressive (i.e., less risky) tax positions. Consistent with this prediction, we find that firms headquartered in more religious US counties are less likely to avoid taxes. We also find that religiosity is consistently associated with lower tax avoidance by individual taxpayers as measured by underreported income. These results hold after controlling for several firm-level as well as county-level demographic characteristics identified in prior research as affecting tax avoidance by corporate and/or individual taxpayers. We conclude that religiosity is a significant determinant of tax avoidance by corporate and individual taxpayers.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, Religiosity

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Boone, Jeff P. and Khurana, Inder and Raman, K. K., Religiosity and Tax Avoidance (October 19, 2012). Journal of American Taxation Association, Spring 2013, 35(1): 53-84., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2164433
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies