Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More Law than Politics: The Chief, The 'Mandate', Legality, and Statesmanship

The Health Care Case: The Supreme Court's Decision and Its Implications (Nathaniel Persily, Gillian E. Metzger, & Trevor W. Morrison eds., Oxford; 2013 Forthcoming)

30 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2012 Last revised: 10 Jan 2013

Neil Siegel

Texas A&M University School of Law

Date Written: January 7, 2013

Abstract

This chapter in a forthcoming book on NFIB v. Sebelius asks whether the various parts of Chief Justice Roberts’s opinion on the minimum coverage provision are legally justifiable. I focus on what Roberts decided, not why he decided it that way.

Law is fully adequate to explain the Chief Justice’s vote to uphold the minimum coverage provision as within the scope of Congress’s tax power. Roberts embraced the soundest constitutional understanding of the Taxing Clause. He also showed fidelity to the law by applying — and not just giving lip service to — the deeply entrenched presumption of constitutionality that judges are supposed to apply when federal laws are challenged on federalism grounds. Robert’s opinion was unpersuasive in concluding that the minimum coverage provision was beyond the scope of the Commerce and Necessary and Proper Clauses. Roberts failed to apply the modern doctrine of “constitutional avoidance,” thereby needlessly deciding these questions. What is more, he decided them wrongly. Fortunately, the doctrinal consequences of this portion of his opinion will likely (although by no means certainly) prove insignificant.

In the final part of this chapter, I move from the internal perspective of the faithful legal practitioner to the external perspective of the system analyst. I ask what Roberts may have accomplished in responding to NFIB as he did. By prohibiting Congress from requiring Americans to purchase products against their will, Roberts partially expressed new popular and professional constitutional arguments — arguments developed by those who had mobilized against the prevailing view among legal experts that the minimum coverage provision is constitutional. By upholding the minimum coverage provision under the Taxing Clause, he validated the values of the ACA’s supporters and respected the post-New Deal convention that the Court should uphold momentous social welfare legislation. By partially validating the sincerely held moral beliefs of both sides, Roberts may have succeeded in sustaining some measure of social solidarity amidst intense disagreement over health care reform, thereby enhancing the public legitimacy of constitutional law.

Roberts may or may not have intended to practice judicial statesmanship, and his statesmanship may not be enough to justify his contradictions of sound legal reasoning. But statesmanship probably provides the most persuasive way to try to justify his analyses of the Commerce and Necessary and Proper Clauses. Such a defense, however, would require the application of criteria that are difficult to justify as legal from the internal point of view.

Keywords: Supreme Court, Chief Justice Roberts, Affordabe Care Act, ACA

Suggested Citation:

Siegel, Neil, More Law than Politics: The Chief, The 'Mandate', Legality, and Statesmanship (January 7, 2013). The Health Care Case: The Supreme Court's Decision and Its Implications (Nathaniel Persily, Gillian E. Metzger, & Trevor W. Morrison eds., Oxford; 2013 Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2165260
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
The See , Staff , Wash , Landmark: The Inside Story Of America&apos;s New Health-Care Post , Law , What , Means , Us All
, p. 66 - 68 Posted: 2010
Jeffrey Rosen
Big Chief: How to Understand John Roberts, THE NEW REPUBLIC Posted: 2012-07-13
Jeffrey Toobin
To Your Health
THE NEW YORKER Posted: 2012-07-09
Roberts David Von Drehle , Rules
What the Health Care Decision Means for the Country
TIME Posted: 2012-06-29
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,053
RANK
366,348
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies