Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Liability of Auditors beyond Their Clients: A Comparative Study

L.Khoury,The Liability of Auditors beyond Their Clients: A Comparative Study, (2001) 46 Revue de droit de McGill, 413

59 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2012

Lara Khoury

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

The constant evolution of the importance of auditors’ functions during the twentieth century brought with it considerable scholarship on their responsibility. Indeed, confronted with the insolvency of a company in which they have invested, shareholders, investors, and offerors increasingly seek to recover their economic loss from auditors who, solvent and insured, were negligent in auditing the financial statements of the company in question. Accordingly, the study of the liability of an auditor towards third parties has a growing importance. In this article the author analyzes comparatively auditors’ liability under the common law of England and Canada and under the civil law of France and Quebec. Specifically, she attempts to show how courts use the duty of care in the common law and causality in the civil law to limit this liability. Furthermore, she pays particular attention to the influence of Canadian, English, and French law on the law of Quebec. The author not only delineates this influence, but also comments on the extent to which the law of Quebec may legitimately take inspiration from the English and Canadian common law and the civil law of France in the area of auditors’ liability to third parties.

Keywords: auditor, liability, history, historical perspective, insolvency, liability of an auditor towards third parties, Common Law, civil law, compartive law, duty of care

Suggested Citation:

Khoury, Lara, The Liability of Auditors beyond Their Clients: A Comparative Study (2001). L.Khoury,The Liability of Auditors beyond Their Clients: A Comparative Study, (2001) 46 Revue de droit de McGill, 413, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2166364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
267 References
See England
CA 1985, ibid., s
: Canada , Ibid Cbca
Crossref
Ibid Abca
Crossref
Ibid Bcca
MCA, ibid., s , volume 162 , issue 1
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
282,998
267 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

English & Commonwealth Law eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Production Theory of Pure Economic Loss

By Robert J. Rhee

Making European Tort Law: The Game and its Players

By Marta Infantino

The Boundary-Line Function of the Economic Loss Rule

By Vincent R. Johnson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies