Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Roles and Responsibilities of 21st Century Board

24 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2012 Last revised: 30 Oct 2012

Adrian Fong

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 25, 2012

Abstract

In light of the board’s increasing importance to corporate governance, this study aims to explore and consolidate the roles and responsibilities of the 21st century board of directors. Ever-increasing corporate governance practices make it essential that Hong Kong boards understand their roles and responsibilities. This study strives to help achieve that. In doing so, broad-based initiatives are advocated to assist boards in operating more efficiently. Through an analysis of current corporate governance trends, this study also points to a major responsibility that the 21st century board must operate around – the ability to add value to the company.

Keywords: board, directors, corporate, 21st century, roles, responsibilities, strategy, hong kong, corporate governance, corporation, duties, company secretary, strategy

Suggested Citation:

Fong, Adrian, Roles and Responsibilities of 21st Century Board (October 25, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2166786 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2166786
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
S Murphy , &amp; M Mcintyre
Board of director performance: a group dynamics perspective
Corporate Governance , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 224 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
Charam
Crossref
The board's strategic role can include responsibilities such as: ordering strategic reviews, endorsing or refusing management's strategic plans, deciding on mergers and acquisitions, disposing of major assets, and raising capital. D Nordberg, Corporate governance: principles and issues
SAGE Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,539
RANK
312,985
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Hong Kong: Key Problems and Prospects

By Simon S. M. Ho

Determinants of Financial Distress of ST and PT Companies: A Panel Analysis of Chinese Listed Companies

By Dairui Li and Jia Liu

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies