Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Return on Investments in Tax Planning for Employees: Evidence from Germany

45 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2012

Kay Blaufus

Leibniz Universität Hannover

Frank Hechtner

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Axel Möhlmann

Deutsche Bundesbank

Date Written: October 26, 2012

Abstract

Tax preparation firms advertise their services as a way to save taxes. Along this line, we use a large cross-sectional sample of German income tax accounting data, consisting of employees and other taxpayers with non-business income, to explore the relationship between expenses for tax preparation and tax liabilities. We find a negative link with expenses exceeding estimated tax savings. Specifically, one additional Euro yields estimated tax savings of only 75 Cents which implies that individual tax planning is no profitable investment from a tax saving perspective. In consideration of time savings, tax planning is worthwhile only for high income groups. This result suggests for most taxpayers an overinvestment. Potential explanations include an overvaluation of time and tax savings or a benefit of tax planning beyond these savings.

Keywords: tax planning, response to taxation, tax advisors, tax return preparation

JEL Classification: H24, H31

Suggested Citation:

Blaufus, Kay and Hechtner, Frank and Möhlmann, Axel, The Return on Investments in Tax Planning for Employees: Evidence from Germany (October 26, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2167255 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2167255
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Beck Paul , J , Jon S Davis , Woon-Oh Jung
Tax Advice and Reporting under Uncertainty: Theory and Experimental Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , p. 49 - 80 Posted: 1996
Kay Blaufus , Sebastian Eichfelder , Jochen Hundsdoerfer
The Hidden Burden of the Income Tax. Compliance Costs of German Individuals Posted: 2011
Kay Blaufus , Axel Möhlmann , Forthcoming
Security Returns and Tax Aversion Bias: Behavioral Responses to Tax Labels
Journal of Behavioral Finance
Crossref
Marsha Blumenthal , Joel Slemrod
The Compliance Cost of the U.S. Individual Income Tax System, A Second Look After Tax Reform
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , p. 185 - 202 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,083
RANK
456,685
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Role Tax Preparers Play in Taxpayer Compliance: An Empirical Investigation with Policy Implications

By Sagit Leviner

The Hidden Burden of the Income Tax: Compliance Costs of German Individuals

By Jochen Hundsdoerfer, Sebastian Eichfelder, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies