Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do Courts Have to Do With It?: The Judiciary's Role in Making Federal Tax Law

National Tax Journal, Vol. 65, No. 4, December 2012

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 216

19 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2012 Last revised: 12 Jul 2013

Leandra Lederman

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code is an important source of federal tax law, but it is not the only source. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service issue important guidance, and federal courts interpret all of these authorities. This essay provides an overview of federal tax litigation, at both the trial and appellate levels, and discusses the interplay among Congress, the Treasury, and the judiciary in developing federal tax law.

Keywords: tax law, tax litigation, courts, Treasury, IRS

JEL Classification: K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Lederman, Leandra, What Do Courts Have to Do With It?: The Judiciary's Role in Making Federal Tax Law (2012). National Tax Journal, Vol. 65, No. 4, December 2012, Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 216, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2169491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
See Intermountain at , p. 220 - 244
Crossref
Intermountain Ins , Serv , Vail
Comm'r, 650 F
noting that the regulation does not apply by the terms of its applicability date and Colony is controlling, so the regulation would not be entitled to Chevron deference anyway, affi rmed , volume 634 , p. 256 - 57 Posted: 2011
granting Chevron deference and fi nding arguments regarding procedural defects in the temporary regulations mooted by the issuance of the fi nal regulations. And see Salman Ranch, Ltd. v. Commissioner, 647 F.3d 929
similarly applying Chevron deference to the fi nal regulations and fi nding that arguments regarding the temporary regulations were mooted by the issuance of the fi nal regulations , p. 939 - 979 Posted: 2011
Load more
1 Citations
Antonio Lopo Martinez , Emmanuel Silva , Maurílio Arruda , Alfredo Sarlo Neto
Determinants of the Temporality of Corporate Income Tax Litigation by Large Brazilian Banks in the CARF
24 Pages · Posted: 14 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,166
RANK
258,444
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies