Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Value-Added: A Review of the Theoretical and Empirical Literature

Asian Review of Accounting, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 67-86, 2001

22 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2012

Andrew C. Worthington

Griffith University

Tracey West

Griffith University

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

With increasing pressure on firms to deliver shareholder value, there has been a renewed emphasis on devising measures of corporate financial performance and incentive compensation plans that encourage managers to increase shareholder wealth. One professedly recent innovation in the field of internal and external performance measurement is a trade-marked variant of residual income known as economic value-added (EVA). This paper attempts to provide a synoptic survey of EVA’s conceptual underpinnings and the comparatively few empirical analyses of value-added performance measures. Special attention is given to the GAAPrelated accounting adjustments involved in EVA-type calculations.

Keywords: economic value added, EVA, accounting performance measures

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Worthington, Andrew C. and West, Tracey, Economic Value-Added: A Review of the Theoretical and Empirical Literature (2001). Asian Review of Accounting, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 67-86, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2169807
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
B J Askren , J W Bannister , E L Pavlik
The Impact of Performance Plan Adoption on Value Added and Earnings
Managerial Finance , volume 20 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J W Bannister , A Riahi-Belkaoui
Value Added and Corporate Control in the
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 3 , p. 241 - 257 Posted: 1991
Crossref
B H Bao , D H Bao
The Time Series Behaviour and Predictive Ability Results of Annual Value Added Data
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 23 , p. 449 - 460 Posted: 1996
B H Bao , D H Bao
Usefulness of Value Added and Abnormal Economic Earnings: An Empirical Examination
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 25 , p. 251 - 265 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
546
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,899
RANK
116,469
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Review and Synthesis of the Economic Value-Added Literature

By Andrew C. Worthington and Tracey West

Economic Value Added: Some Empirical Evidence

By Gary C. Biddle, Robert M. Bowen, ...

Australian Evidence Concerning the Information Content of Economic Value-Added

By Andrew C. Worthington and Tracey West

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies