Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Industry-Specialist Auditors Influence Stock Price Crash Risk?

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2014 Last revised: 7 Sep 2014

Ashok Robin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT)

Hao Zhang

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Saunders College of Business

Date Written: September 6, 2014

Abstract

Francis (2011) calls for more research on “the effect of audit quality on economic outcomes.” We respond by examining whether high-quality auditors reduce stock price crash risk, an important consideration for stock investors. We argue that high-quality auditors reduce crash risk because of their information intermediary and corporate governance roles. Using a large sample of U.S. stocks spanning the period 1990-2009, we examine the issue empirically by using auditor industry specialization as our proxy for auditor quality. Our main finding is a statistically significant and negative association between auditor industry specialization and stock price crash risk, implying that high-quality auditors can directly benefit investors by reducing tail risk. In addition, we provide evidence that industry-specialist auditors moderate the effects of opacity, accounting conservatism, and tax avoidance on crash risk. Finally, our main finding of a negative relation between auditor industry specialization and crash risk is robust to using city-level industry specialization as an alternate measure.

Keywords: Auditor quality, Industry specialization, Crash risk, Tail risk, Information intermediary, Corporate governance, Accounting conservatism

JEL Classification: G19, G32, M42

Suggested Citation:

Robin, Ashok and Zhang, Hao, Do Industry-Specialist Auditors Influence Stock Price Crash Risk? (September 6, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2169099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2169099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
H An , T Zhang
Stock price synchronicity, crash risk, and institutional investors
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 21 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Reeb
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Crossref
B Badertscher , B Jorgensen , S Katz , W Kinney
Audit pricing and litigation risk: The role of public equity. Working paper Posted: 2012
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,013
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,542
RANK
51,432
10 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies