Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case Against the Tax Deductibility of FCA Relator Fees

New York University Law Review, Vol. 87, No. 5, 2012

33 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2012 Last revised: 8 Nov 2012

Jonathan Grossman

New York University School of Law

Date Written: November 5, 2012

Abstract

The False Claims Act (FCA) imposes severe penalties on those who commit fraud against the federal government. The statute currently requires violators to pay treble damages plus a statutory penalty of five to ten thousand dollars per violation. The goal of the statute is to deter fraud by setting punitive damages at a high level. However, the tax law, as currently interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), blunts the force of the statute by allowing a violator to deduct a portion of an FCA damages award as a business expense. Specifically, Treasury regulations allow for the deductibility of any portion of an FCA settlement or damages award that is paid to the whistleblower, known as the “relator,” who brings suit under the FCA for the alleged fraud. This Note argues that, for reasons of efficiency and equity, the IRS should change its current position and disallow relator fee deductions.

Keywords: FCA, False Claims Act, Relator, Relator fees, Whistleblower, whistleblower awards, punitive damages, tax deductions, compensatory damages

Suggested Citation:

Grossman, Jonathan, The Case Against the Tax Deductibility of FCA Relator Fees (November 5, 2012). New York University Law Review, Vol. 87, No. 5, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Cornell L Rev
Accepting the Limits of Tax Law and Economics Posted: 2013
See Polinsky , &amp; Shavell
at 889 (stating a general formula for a standard tort case: "[T]he total damages imposed on an injurer should equal the harm multiplied by the reciprocal of the probability that the injurer will be found liable when he ought to be
Richard A Posner
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF LAW
Risk-averse individuals prefer to avoid an activity with an expected payoff of zero even though there is a possibility of a high payoff in the event that the individual is not caught, because of the chance of a negative payoff if the individual is caught
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies