Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Binding Choices: Tax Elections & Federal/State Conformity

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, 2013

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 8

64 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2012 Last revised: 6 May 2013

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: November 5, 2012

Abstract

The federal government wields tremendous power over state fiscal policy because most states’ income tax laws conform, at least to some degree, to the federal income tax laws. Extensive literature discusses the advantages and disadvantages of this tax base conformity, but scholars generally assume that the question facing state governments is to what extent the state tax provisions should conform to the federal tax provisions. Where the federal tax law provides explicit tax elections (e.g., a married couple’s choice to file jointly or separately), however, state legislators must decide not only whether the state law will conform to the federal law (i.e., affording taxpayers the same choice for state tax purposes), but legislators must also decide whether to bind each taxpayer, for state tax purposes, to the taxpayer’s federal tax choices. This additional decision matters because the simplicity, administrability, and revenue implications of election conformity can depend on whether and how state legislators constrain the taxpayer autonomy provided by the elections. Further, this additional decision presents a fundamental federalism question about how power over state fiscal policy should be allocated among the federal government, the state government, and the taxpayers themselves. Yet, despite the large number of tax elections in the federal income tax law, the existing literature regarding federal/state tax base conformity fails to provide guidance about how state legislators considering conformity to federal tax law should take into account the optionality inherent in explicit elections. This article fills that gap.

Keywords: tax elections, state taxation, tax base, conformity, fiscal federalism

JEL Classification: H2, H71, H73, K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., Binding Choices: Tax Elections & Federal/State Conformity (November 5, 2012). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, 2013, UC Hastings Research Paper No. 8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
INCOME TAX 2-6 (1997) (explaining the policy conflict that leads to debate over marriage penalties and marriage bonuses)
Gregg A Esenwein
) (discussing "conflicting goals of equity" in the application of the income tax to couples); see also Boris I. Bittker, Federal Income Taxation and the Family
Income Taxation of Married Couples: Background and Analysis, 90 TAX NOTES 1081 , p. 1416 - 1435 Posted: 1975
Lawrence Zelenak
Doing Something About Marriage Penalties: A Guide for the Perplexed
L. REV , volume 54 Posted: 2000
E G See , Amy C Christian
Joint and Several Liability and the Joint Return: Its Implication for Women Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,678
RANK
352,454
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies