Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Constructive Critique of Public Health Arguments for Anti-Obesity Soda Taxes and Food Taxes

Tulane Law Review, Vol. 87, No. 73, 2012

Loyola-LA Legal Studies Paper No. 2012-44

69 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2012 Last revised: 5 Mar 2013

Katherine Pratt

Loyola Law School Los Angeles

Date Written: November 5, 2012

Abstract

This Article constructively critiques the two arguments that public health advocates have made in support of anti-obesity soda taxes or junk food taxes. Part II discusses and critiques the first argument, an economic externalities argument that government should tax soda or junk food to internalize the disproportionately high health care costs of obesity. Part II also explores alternative economic internalities argument for food or soda taxes, with a focus on incomplete information, bounded rationality, and bounded willpower. Part III discusses and critiques the second argument made by public health advocates, that government should adopt anti-obesity measures to improve population-wide health. This Part considers the appropriate scope of public health law interventions with respect to behavioral risk factors (for example, diet), comments on empirical evidence offered by public health advocates to support proposed soda taxes, and cautions public health advocates to consider possible unintended consequences of anti-obesity proposals.

Obesity policy debates present a conflict of fundamental values, such as health, fairness, efficiency, and autonomy. Part IV attempts to reconcile these values and responds to the “personal responsibility” objection to soda taxes and food taxes. Part V considers various factors that would affect behavioral responses to proposed soda taxes and food taxes and addresses concerns that such taxes would be regressive and thus unfair to low-income consumers. This Part also explores the tax design implications of the literature on tax salience and on asymmetric paternalism and libertarian paternalism. Part VI suggests the way forward for public health advocates, including a proposal to enact a tax on nutritionally poor foods and drinks, paired with a salient benefit. In addition, this Part recommends enactment of a federal system of food classification, based on nutrient profiling methods, along with a federal system of front-of-package nutritional labeling.

Keywords: food tax, fat tax, junk food, obesity, soda tax, sweetened beverage, BMI, diet, public health, externalities, internalities, behavioral economics, willpower, incomplete information, tobacco, market failure, critical realism, fast food, menu labeling, calories, nutrition

JEL Classification: H20, H23, H51, I12, I18

Suggested Citation:

Pratt, Katherine, A Constructive Critique of Public Health Arguments for Anti-Obesity Soda Taxes and Food Taxes (November 5, 2012). Tulane Law Review, Vol. 87, No. 73, 2012 , Loyola-LA Legal Studies Paper No. 2012-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
E G See , Robert E Goodin , Smoking false
A tax that falls disproportionately upon the poor is regressive
THE ETHICAL ISSUES , volume 108 Posted: 1989
E G See , M Joseph , Dodge
Theories of Tax Justice. Ruminations on the Benefit, Partnership, andAbility-To-Pay Pnciples, 58 TAx L. REv , volume 399 Posted: 2005
E G See , Joseph Bankman , &amp; Thomas Griffith
Social Welfare and the Rate Structure. A NewLook at Progressive Taxation, 75 CALIF
L. REv Posted: 1987
E G See , Goodin
, volume 278
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,360
RANK
42,972
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies