Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trying Times: Important Lessons to Be Learned from Recent Federal Tax Cases

68 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2012

Nancy A. McLaughlin

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law

Stephen Small

Law Office of Stephen J. Small, Esq., P.C.

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 2, 2012

Abstract

This outline was prepared for a panel discussion on recent case law developments in the conservation easement donation context that took place at the Land Trust Alliance national conference in Salt Lake City, Utah, in early October 2012. The four panelists were Nancy A. McLaughlin, Robert W. Swenson Professor of Law at the University of Utah SJ Quinney College of Law; Stephen J. Small, national expert on conservation easement donation transactions and one of the principal drafters of the Treasury Regulations interpreting Internal Revenue Code § 170(h); Karin Gross, Supervisory Attorney, IRS Office of Chief Counsel; and Marc L. Caine, Senior Counsel, IRS Office of Chief Counsel.

Keywords: conservation easement, 170(h), charitable income tax deduction, easement donation, tax law, perpetuity, substantiation requirements, substantial compliance, qualified appraisal, qualified appraiser, Form 8283, Form 990, contemporaneous written acknowledgment, mortgage subordination

JEL Classification: H20, H50, K34, L31, Q20

Suggested Citation:

McLaughlin, Nancy A. and Small, Stephen, Trying Times: Important Lessons to Be Learned from Recent Federal Tax Cases (October 2, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2171733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,179
RANK
68,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies