Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Illusory Promise of Economic Nexus

13 Fl. Tax Rev. 157

66 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2012 Last revised: 15 Dec 2012

Adam B. Thimmesch

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - College of Law

Date Written: November 7, 2012

Abstract

The economic-nexus standard has gained significant support during the last decade as the proper standard for determining the scope of states’ taxing powers under the Dormant Commerce Clause. Unfortunately, however, despite the widespread acceptance of that standard in the abstract, there is no uniform understanding of what economic nexus actually means. State courts that have adopted that standard have generally failed to explain its parameters, and those few courts that have actually addressed the scope of economic nexus have adopted artificially high standards that severely restrict its reach. Actions by state legislatures and revenue authorities have been much the same. Uncertainty reigns, yet those disparate approaches to the same constitutional standard have yet to receive scholarly attention. This article fills that void by analyzing state actions in this area and by evaluating how states’ different formulations for economic nexus will likely develop over time. That analysis shows that states’ economic-nexus formulations have little theoretical or jurisprudential grounding and will necessarily change and deteriorate over time. As a result, states’ actions in this area will be non-uniform and will maintain the significant uncertainty that currently exists. Federal attention to economic nexus is thus warranted to prevent state actions from undermining the goals of the Dormant Commerce Clause. This article analyzes several potential federal responses and concludes that Congress should intervene and adopt a federal factor-nexus standard based on the Multistate Tax Commission’s model formulation.

Suggested Citation:

Thimmesch, Adam B., The Illusory Promise of Economic Nexus (November 7, 2012). 13 Fl. Tax Rev. 157, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2172307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
For a discussion of those arguments, see Swain, A Jurisprudential and Policy Perspective, supra note 7 , p. 347 - 396
See supra notes 26-29 and accompanying text; see also Swain, A Jurisprudential and Policy Perspective, supra note 7 , p. 347 - 396
Quasi in rem jurisdiction refers to a state's jurisdiction over a person's property that is located in the state. See BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY 689 Posted: 2000
Shaffer V , Heitner
, volume 186 , p. 207 - 219 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,777
RANK
299,879
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies