Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Establishing a System of Accounting Standards: A Case Study of Macau

Proceedings of 19th International Business Research Conference 2012

15 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2012

Ratnam Alagiah

University of South Australia

Tan Cheng LOK

University of South Australia

Date Written: October 15, 2012

Abstract

This paper studies the current accounting standards requirements in Macau. Macau has its own financial reporting standards for commercial enterprises, although it is not yet fully developed. We identify that currently there is a lack of a set of financial reporting standards to govern private not-for-profit organizations and also Macau has not yet built up a set of government accounting standards. Currently government departments in Macau mostly adopt cash basis budgeting with the exception of six government entities. The authors propose that Macau should establish a system of accounting standards for various entities in order to improve accounting information quality and thus protecting public interest. It is recommended that at the commercial enterprises level, full adoption of IFRS should be implemented, while at the same time maintaining the current “small GAPP” for small-medium sized enterprises. For private not-for-profit organizations, there is an urgent need to establish a set of financial reporting requirements but it should be simple and based on historical cost accounting. In the long run, Macau should also establish a set of government accounting standards which is separated from budgeting. The research result can be extended to other countries/regions which are at the starting phase of standards setting, especially to those which are small size economy, adopt code law and non-English speaking countries or regions.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards, accounting standards of Macau, non-government organizations, public sector accounting standards, fair value accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Alagiah, Ratnam and LOK, Tan Cheng, Establishing a System of Accounting Standards: A Case Study of Macau (October 15, 2012). Proceedings of 19th International Business Research Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2174788 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2174788
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
D Bailey
Accounting in transition in the transitional economy
European Accounting Review , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 595 - 623 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A D Barton
Why governments should use the government finance statistics accounting system
Abacus , volume 47 , issue 4 , p. 411 - 445 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Briston
The evolution of accounting in developing countries
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 1978
R A Chandler
The international harmonization of accounting: In search of influence
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 222 - 233 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
359
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,540
RANK
190,354
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Theory & Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies