Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Principle of Territoriality and its Implementation In the Proposal for a Council Directive On A Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB)

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-09

39 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2013

Michael Lang

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Abstract

The EU Commission put forward its proposal for a Directive for a "Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base" with some delay after long preliminary work. That proposal provides for a uniform corporate tax base which may be relied upon in all EU Member States. Its underlying objective is to reduce the administrative burden for companies. This paper focuses on some provisions of the proposal, which are relevant for companies which are tax resident outside the EU or for commercial activities carried out there, and for EU resident companies that operate in third countries. The territoriality principle, on which the CCCTB concept is based, and its legal technical structure, are primarily discussed.

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Michael, The Principle of Territoriality and its Implementation In the Proposal for a Council Directive On A Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2174982 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2174982
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
For CFC rules in the CCCTB system, see Kofler, CFC Rules
Common Consolidated Tax Base , volume 725 Posted: 2008
Haslinger
CFC Legislation, Tax Treaties and EC Law Posted: 2004
Crossref
Frenckell Von
CFC Legislation, Tax Treaties and EC Law Posted: 2004
Crossref
/ Dado , Sedmihradsky
National Report Czech Republic
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,762
RANK
170,582
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies