Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Pro-Cyclical Effects of Accounting Rules on Basel III Liquidity Regulation

30 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2012 Last revised: 3 Jan 2015

Guoxiang Song

University of Greenwich School of Accounting, Finance, and Economics

Date Written: December 2014

Abstract

Basel III introduces the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) to enhance bank liquidity regulation. This paper investigates whether accounting rules have pro-cyclical effects on these liquidity requirements. By rearranging the formulae for the LCR and the NSFR, this paper develops simplified models for examining such effects. Because of the linkages among accounting rules, capital rules and liquidity ratios, recurring fair value measurements are found to have pro-cyclical effects on both the LCR and the NSFR whereas the provision for loan losses is found to have positive effects on the NSFR although it has little impact on the LCR. The expected loss (EL) model for loan loss provisioning will introduce a new pro-cyclical impact on the NSFR even though it will lessen the pro-cyclical impact of the incurred-loss impairment model on the leverage ratio. Therefore, the contribution of accounting rules to the pro-cyclicality in the regulatory system will be enhanced as the paper also finds that the Basel III liquidity rules and the Basel III capital rules will reinforce each other’s pro-cyclicality.

Keywords: Liquidity coverage ratio; Net stable funding ratio; Fair value accounting; Provision for loan losses; Pro-cyclicality; Basel III

JEL Classification: G21, G38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Song, Guoxiang, The Pro-Cyclical Effects of Accounting Rules on Basel III Liquidity Regulation (December 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2175689 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2175689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
V V Acharya , D Gromb , T Yorulmazer
Imperfect competition in the interbank market for liquidity as a rationale for central banking
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 184 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V V Acharya , N Hassan
The seeds of a crisis: A theory of bank liquidity and risk taking over the business cycle
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 106 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 366 Posted: 2012
Crossref
V V Acharya , S Viswanathan
Leverage, moral hazard, and liquidity
Journal of Finance , volume 66 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 138 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Elena Carletti
The Role of Liquidity in Financial Crises
Pages: 37 Posted: 19 Sep 2008 Last revised: 26 Jan 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,550
RANK
159,412
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies