Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Your Client is an Organization – Some of the Problems Not Resolved by Rule 1.13

18 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2012

Thomas E. Rutledge

Stoll Keenon Ogden PLLC

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 14, 2012

Abstract

More often than not, transactional attorneys will have as their client not a natural person but an organization. Kentucky Supreme Court Rule 1.13 sets forth particular ethical rules that apply when the client is an organization rather than an individual. At the same time the balance of the ethical obligations of an attorney as set forth in the Rules remain applicable. These Rules, as far as they go, can be helpful in providing guidance. The problem is that the Rules are incomplete and often fail to provide clear guidance for counsel attempting to conscientiously discharge their obligations to that organizational client. A multitude of questions continue to exist including:

• Who is the client when the organization is to be formed; • The non-organization as an organizational client; • Privilege vs. entity law document inspection rights; • When the organization’s counsel obligations run to the organization’s constituents; and • Change of control of an organizational client.

Suggested Citation:

Rutledge, Thomas E., When Your Client is an Organization – Some of the Problems Not Resolved by Rule 1.13 (November 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2175640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2175640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Kentucky , Limited Partnerships §
The 1970 Kentucky adoption of the 1916 Uniform Limited Partnership Act is reproduced in id Posted: 2010
S
.3d at 569, quoting Gundelach v. Gollehon, 598 P.2d , volume 521 Posted: 1979
3d at 572, citing Steelvest
Inc. v. Scansteel Serv. Ctr., Inc., 807 S.W.2d , volume 476 Posted: 1991
A limited partner shall have the same rights as a general partner to (a) have the partnership books kept at the principal place of business of the partnership
REV. STAT. ANN. § , volume 362 , issue 1
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,083
RANK
454,090
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal Ethics & Professional Responsibility eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies