Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership and the REMIC Classification Rules

Bloomberg BNA Tax Management Real Estate Journal, November 2012

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 315

12 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2012 Last revised: 4 Dec 2012

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

David J. Reiss

Cornell University - Law School; Cornell University - Cornell Tech NYC

Date Written: November 14, 2012

Abstract

REMICs are securitized pools of mortgages that qualify for special flow-through taxation. To qualify for flow-through tax treatment, the pool must satisfy several requirements. An intended REMIC that fails to satisfy those requirements will likely be taxed as a corporation and payments made to holders of interests in a failed REMIC will likely be nondeductible dividend payments, subjecting the REMIC to significant tax and penalties. Such tax and penalties will cause beneficial interests in the pool to lose value and frustrate investors who relied upon REMIC classification as an incentive to purchase interests. Thus, tax classification is critical to REMICs and their investors. Nonetheless, recent litigation and various media reports suggest that many mortgage pools may not qualify for REMIC classification.

Keywords: mortgage-backed securities, MBS, Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, REMIC, beneficial ownership

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Reiss, David J., Beneficial Ownership and the REMIC Classification Rules (November 14, 2012). Bloomberg BNA Tax Management Real Estate Journal, November 2012, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 315, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2175766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Crossref
Copyright © 2012
The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. Reproduction or redistribution, in whole or in part, and in any form, without express written permission, is prohibited except as permitted by the BNA Copyright Policy
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
253
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,018
RANK
276,301
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies