Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Decay Caused by Preempting for Revenue

Tax Notes, Vol. 137, No. 7, 2012

14 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2012 Last revised: 19 Nov 2012

Patrick Driessen

Independent

Date Written: November 12, 2012

Abstract

Why do the promises of tax bills seemingly fade so quickly and why do revenue-raising provisions often fall short? That question has no single answer. However, part of the revenue shortfall may be attributable to a broad class of tax provisions that involve preemption by policymakers of regulatory and other administrative redress. To generate the "legislative currency" necessary to finance enactment of other tax changes and outlay programs, those preemptions often target "tax authority conflicts." This report provides examples of those conflicts, including tax gap closers, the repeal of export tax subsidies, and interest in repealing the LIFO method of accounting, while also identifying factors in the preemptions that degrade the tax base and process. Guidelines are offered for choosing robust revenue raisers. The report concludes by examining the conflict over the amortization of intangibles, which policymakers declined to preempt.

Keywords: tax reform, tax legislation, revenue estimating

JEL Classification: H20, H60, K34

Suggested Citation:

Driessen, Patrick, Tax Decay Caused by Preempting for Revenue (November 12, 2012). Tax Notes, Vol. 137, No. 7, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2176525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
H See Calvin , Lawrence Johnson , Zelenak
Codification of General Disallowance of Artificial Losses
Tax Notes Posted: 2009-03-16
Also
Congress should seek more information about the revenue estimates and larger economic consequences of treaties, as suggested in Driessen
Is There a Tax Treaty Insularity Complex?'' Tax Notes , p. 2012 - 89 Posted: 2012-05-07
Extend the Tax Life for Acquired Intangibles to 75 Years
Johnson believes section 197 is too taxpayerfavorable. See '' , p. 2012 - 8587 Posted: 2012-05-21
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
805,836
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies