Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Roadmap to Future Mandatory Application of IFRS in Japan from the Perspective of Financial Statement Preparers

13 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2012

Hu Dan Semba

Nagoya University

Jun Yao

Ritsumeikan University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: November 17, 2012

Abstract

This paper seeks to contribute to the discussion on the future mandatory application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), using data from a questionnaire-based survey administered to financial statement preparers, that is, management in Japan. The important findings of this paper are as follows. The majority of Japanese companies consider that the domestic markets are more important than overseas markets; the most important differences between IFRS and Japanese standards are goodwill, comprehensive income, and the recognition of revenue; it is expected that IFRS would be applied only in consolidated financial statements or in both consolidated and parent companies’ separate financial statements; and the lack of legislation making it mandatory is the main reason IFRS has not been adopted by Japanese companies. Overall, this paper found that Japanese management are prudent and passive regarding IFRS adoption, leaving room for further discussion on the future mandatory application of IFRS in Japan.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Japanese GAAP, convergence

JEL Classification: M4, G15, F2, F3, F6

Suggested Citation:

Semba, Hu Dan and Yao, Jun, Roadmap to Future Mandatory Application of IFRS in Japan from the Perspective of Financial Statement Preparers (November 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2177389 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2177389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
D Alexander , C Nobes
Financial Accounting: An International Introduction Posted: 2009
M E Barth
Investigation Report on the Present State of the Japanese Market System and Corporate Governance for New Growth
Global Financial Reporting: Implications for U.S. Academics. The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 1159 - 1179 Posted: 2008
F D S Choi , G K Meek
International Accounting Posted: 2005
A Habib
Auditing and Information Intermediaries: Survey of the Empirical Literature
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 26 , p. 1 - 75 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,227
RANK
278,525
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies