Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attributes of Ownership

University of Chicago Institute for Law & Economics Olin Research Paper No. 621

45 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2012

Reid Thompson

University of Chicago - Law School

David A. Weisbach

University of Chicago - Law School

Date Written: November 12, 2012

Abstract

We examine the tax rules for ownership of fungible securities in light of three recent cases addressing this issue, Samueli, Calloway, and Anschutz. We argue that ownership has no economic basis under an income tax because under a pure income tax ownership would not be needed to measure income. Rather than acting as a bedrock principle based in economics, ownership in a realizationbased income tax acts as a default rule for assigning tax characteristics to positions. For example, ownership determine characteristics such as holding periods, eligibility for special tax benefits such as the dividends received deduction, counting toward control or as qualifying consideration for various purposes, and so forth. Each of these characteristics, which we label tax attributes, is motivated by different policy considerations. Given the wide variety of policies behind the various tax attributes, no single concept of ownership can be expected to be appropriate in all cases. Therefore, tax rules for each characteristic start with the default rule of ownership but modify the assignment of the attribute based on the relevant policy considerations. Viewing ownership, as a mere default for assigning tax attributes, we propose a simple and clear rule for ownership of fungible securities which produces results similar to those of current law and yet which avoid the problems created by the recent court decisions on ownership of fungible securities.

Suggested Citation:

Thompson, Reid and Weisbach, David, Attributes of Ownership (November 12, 2012). University of Chicago Institute for Law & Economics Olin Research Paper No. 621, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2177022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2177022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,398
RANK
225,977
47 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies