Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base: Effects of Formulary Apportionment on Corporate Group Entities

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-04

SFB International Tax Coordination Discussion Paper No. 38

30 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2013

Matthias Petutschnig

Vienna University of Economics and Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The European Commission is currently working on a legislative draft to harmonize the corporate income tax provisions for multinational groups of companies throughout the European Union. For that purpose the European Commission has installed a working group with the mission to draft a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) applicable for multinational companies. As the EU member states are not willing to surrender their taxing power to the supranational level of the EU each group entity’s tax base would be determined by apportionment of the group’s overall taxable income according to a predefined micro-economic factor based formula whereas the group income will be calculated by consolidating earnings beforehand separately determined by each group entity (preconsolidation income). The situs state of the particular group entity would then apply its statutory corporate tax rate on the apportioned tax base. This paper evaluates the effects of this prospective apportionment procedure on any given corporate group entity and finds that the share of the group’s income allocated to a particular entity using the apportionment formula does regularly not equal the pre-consolidation income of the respective group entity. The reasons for this regular observable deviation can be found on the one hand in the concept of the apportionment formula and on the other hand in the specifics of the definitions of the apportionment factors.

Keywords: CCCTB, formulary apportionment, group taxation

Suggested Citation:

Petutschnig, Matthias, Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base: Effects of Formulary Apportionment on Corporate Group Entities (2012). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2012-04, SFB International Tax Coordination Discussion Paper No. 38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2178004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2178004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Agúndez-Garcia
The Delineation and Apportionment of an EU Consolidated Tax Base for Multi-Jurisdictional Corporate Income Taxation: a Review of Issues and Options
Ana Posted: 2006
Bharat N Anand , Richard Sansing
The Weighting Game: Formula Apportionment as an Instrument of Public Policy
National Tax Journal , volume 53 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 200 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Ccctb Wg
CCCTB: possible elements of the sharing mechanism Posted: 2007
Ccctb Wg
CCCTB: possible elements of a technical outline Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
476
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,086
RANK
137,627
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies