Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Characteristics of Companies Audited by Large Audit Firms

ICESAL - 9th International Conference on Enterprise Systems, Accounting and Logistics, Research Development Session Abstracts, Chania, Crete, Greece, 3-5 June 2012, pp. 12

22 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2012 Last revised: 29 Apr 2013

Marinos Mastorakis

Hellenic Mediterranean University - Department of Accounting; Panteion University of Athens - Department of Public Administration

Costas Siriopoulos

Zayed University, College of Business; University of Patras - Business Administration

Stavros Arvanitis

Hellenic Mediterranean University

Date Written: November 23, 2012

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine how financial characteristics associated with the choice of a big audit firm with further investigation on the agency costs of free cash flows.

Design/methodology/approach – The sample used for this work includes industrial listed companies from Germany and France. To test our hypothesis, we used a number of logit models, extending the standard model selection audit firm, to include the variables of interest. Following previous work, our dependent dummy variable is Big4 or non-Big4.

Findings – We observed that most independent variables in the German companies show similar results to previous work, but we did not have the same results for the French industry. Moreover, our findings suggest that the total debt and dividends can be an important reason for determining the choice of a large audit firm, reducing agency costs of free cash flows.

Research limitations/implications – This study has some limitations on the measurements of the cost of the audit fees and also generates opportunities for additional searching.

Originality/value – The paper provides only one aspect to explain the relationship between the problems of agency costs of free cash flow and influence in choosing a large auditing firm, which stems from investors’ demand for higher quality audits.

Keywords: audit pricing, agency conflicts, free cash flows, debt monitoring, growth opportunities

JEL Classification: C30, L80, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mastorakis, Marinos and Siriopoulos, Costas and Arvanitis, Stavros, Financial Characteristics of Companies Audited by Large Audit Firms (November 23, 2012). ICESAL - 9th International Conference on Enterprise Systems, Accounting and Logistics, Research Development Session Abstracts, Chania, Crete, Greece, 3-5 June 2012, pp. 12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2179910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2179910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Allen T Craswell , Jere R Francis
Pricing Initial Audit Engagements: A Test of Competing Theories
The Accounting Review , volume 74 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 216 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Franklin Allen , Antonio E Bernando , Ivo Welch
A Theory of Dividends Based on Tax Clienteles
The Journal of Fenance , p. 2499 - 2536 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Andrei Shleifer , Robert W Vishny
Large Shareholders and Corporate Control
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 94 , issue 3 , p. 461 - 488 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Andrew Ferguson , Jere R Francis , Donald J Stokes
The Effects of FirmWide and Office-Level Industry Expertise on Audit Pricing
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 2 , p. 429 - 448 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
219,770
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies