Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Segment Reporting: Is IFRS 8 Really Better?

Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association.

46 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2012 Last revised: 7 Mar 2015

Mark Aleksanyan

University of Glasgow

Jo Danbolt

University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: March 4, 2015

Abstract

This paper contributes to the debate on segment reporting standards in the UK and Europe and, specifically, the merit of IFRS 8 relative to predecessor standards (SSAP 25 and IAS 14R). We carry out a longitudinal analysis of segment reporting practices of a large sample of listed UK companies, covering all three reporting regimes. Using the Proprietary Cost Theory (PCT) as our theoretical lens, we present evidence consistent with PCT, that proprietary costs considerations influence companies’ segment disclosure choices. We show that when companies are required to disclose more detailed accounting information for geographical segments (e.g., when geography is the basis of operating segments, under IFRS 8, or primary segments, under IAS 14R), they choose to define geographical segments in broader geographic areas terms than was the case under SSAP 25. We find that although companies disclose greater quantity of segmental information under IFRS 8 and IAS 14R (than SSAP 25), the more recent standards brought about a notable reduction in (i) the level of specificity of the disclosed geographical segments, and (ii) the quantity of disclosed geographic segment profit data – one of the most important data types for users. While this may have reduced the proprietary costs of segment disclosures, the reduction in disclosure of segmental performance data may have reduced the usefulness of segment reports to investors.

Keywords: IFRS 8, IAS 14 Revised, SSAP 25, Segment reporting, LOB disclosures, Geographical disclosures

JEL Classification: M48, M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Aleksanyan, Mark and Danbolt, Jo, Segment Reporting: Is IFRS 8 Really Better? (March 4, 2015). Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, A Journal of the European Accounting Association., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2180894 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2180894
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
G Breton , R Taffler
Accounting information and analyst stock recommendation decisions: a content analysis approach, Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , p. 91 - 101 Posted: 2001
Crossref
European Parliament resolution of 14 November 2007 on the draft Commission regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1725/2003 adopting certain international accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 8, concerning disclosure of operating segments
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Posted: 2007
Companies Act Posted: 1985
Crossref
L Crawford , H Extance , C Helliar , D Power
Operating segments: The usefulness of IFRS 8
ICAS Report. ICAS: Edinburgh Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
868
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,461
RANK
63,695
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies