Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Fair Value Accounting in the Banking Industry

19 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2012 Last revised: 16 Jan 2013

John Gladney

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs - College of Business

Date Written: December 6, 2011

Abstract

Since the recent financial crisis, fair value accounting (FVA), specifically Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157 (SFAS No. 157), has had many critics. Some claim that fair value accounting caused or at least contributed to the crisis. Others reject fair value accounting on a conceptual level in favor of historical cost. Of these criticisms, three have been levied most by fair value accounting critics. The first is the claim that increased volatility is caused by the pro-cyclicality of fair value accounting. The next is the claim that fair value accounting has an overly negative impact on a bank’s regulatory capital. Finally, critics claim that there is no framework for valuing assets in illiquid markets when the assets are still performing. When analyzed, these criticisms don’t justify the suspension or revocation of fair value accounting in US generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Evidence will show that fair value accounting did not cause the financial crisis. In fact, fair value accounting can potentially lessen the severity of financial crises.

Keywords: fair value, banking, financial crisis

Suggested Citation:

Gladney, John, An Analysis of Fair Value Accounting in the Banking Industry (December 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2181153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2181153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Xiaofei Song
Value Relevance of Fair Values-Empirical Evidence of the Impact of Market Volatility
Accounting Perspectives , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 91 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,644
RANK
119,735
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies