Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Utopian Visions Toward a Grand Unified Global Income Tax

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 14, No. 5, 361 - 418 (2013)

58 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2012 Last revised: 21 Jul 2014

Henry Ordower

Saint Louis University - School of Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Over the past several decades, many countries that historically relied on progressive taxes on income, wealth, and decedents’ estates for much governmental revenue have shifted to less progressive and regressive taxes on labor and consumption. Reasons for the shift are many but include international tax competition as world economies have become increasing global. This paper assumes that progressive taxes remain the best and fairest choice for providing governmental revenue, so that a fundamental change in the scope of the progressive income tax is essential to protect progressivity.

The paper argues that the rapid growth of international cooperation on economic and tax matters makes a shift to a unified global income tax possible. A GUGIT would make far better sense than separate national income taxes. The paper goes on to describe a vision of a GUGIT with a global taxing authority and a uniform tax base.

For business entities, the GUGIT would apportion the uniform tax base among countries in which a taxpayer is active based upon a four factor formula that includes sales, property but not intangible property with respect to which physical location has little meaning, labor based upon adjusted payroll that eliminates the distortions of wage differentials or upon person hours, and beneficial ownership. The GUGIT would include a robust related taxpayer definition in order to prevent taxpayers from artificially shifting income to countries that choose to impose lower rates of tax on their shares of the uniform base through transfer pricing and similar devices.

At individual level, the GUGIT would allocate income to the jurisdiction into which the taxpayer intends his or her services to have their impact or upon relative periods of residence during the year. Either method diminishes the benefit of expatriation to avoid taxes but a continuation tax or exit tax may remain necessary to combat tax expatriation.

Suggested Citation:

Ordower, Henry, Utopian Visions Toward a Grand Unified Global Income Tax (2013). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 14, No. 5, 361 - 418 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2182866 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2182866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
European Erm Ii? , Commission , Affairs
Members of ERM II, most of which joined the Euro zone, agreed to a maximum fluctuation within fifteen percent. Denmark maintains the range at 2.25 percent and Latvia at one percent. The UK and Sweden are not part of ERM II, but the Swedish krona generally fluctuates relative to the euro within the fifteen percent range from the base rate Posted: 2013-09-03
Chinese Officials Tell EU Chamber, BLOOMBERG NEWS Posted: 2011-09-03
Crossref
) (see the Capital Account portion of the report, discussing liberalization of the capital markets and convertibility). 204. For example, the Asian Clearing Union permits clearance of transactions either in ACU dollars or euros. See generally
ASIAN CLEARING UNION Posted: 2000
These deductions in U.S. tax parlance would fit into the current group of itemized (or below the line) deductions under section 63 and might include such items as a deduction for the interest on a home mortgage. 211. U.S. tax law considers commuting expenses to be personal, living, and family expenses that under I.R.C. § 262 are non-deductible
Countries may provide additional deductions for the non-income producing part of the taxpayer's world , volume 14
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,023
RANK
373,668
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies