Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Disability for All

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3009

Catholic University Law Review, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2012 Last revised: 26 Feb 2013

Keith Fogg

Harvard Law School; Tax Clinic at Legal Services Center of Harvard Law School

Rachel Zuraw

US Court of Appeals - Fourth Circuit

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code has four discreet sections that allow late filing of claims and other documents under the circumstances described in those sections. The IRS has promulgated a procedural regulation that allows it to permit late elections under prescribed circumstances. Neither the Code sections nor the Regulation cover all of the circumstances in which taxpayers have a good excuse for missing a time frame. The current provisions have developed in an ad hoc manner. More ad hoc development of this area is possible as equitable tolling litigation seeks to open up time frames under the Code despite the efforts of the IRS to argue the tax code is exceptional.

Rather than continue down the path of ad hoc allowance of late claims and certain other late actions, this Article recommends the creation of a statute that would apply to all situations. The recommendation draws from the current provisions allowing late action and from principles developed in equitable tolling litigation. It proposes a transparent system under which the IRS would make a determination whether the late action qualified and that determination would be subject to judicial review under an abuse of discretion standard.

Keywords: tax, statute of limitations, equitable tolling, refund

Suggested Citation:

Fogg, Keith and Zuraw, Rachel, Financial Disability for All (November 1, 2012). Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3009, Catholic University Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2182772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2182772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Pub
Stat , volume 5 , p. 111 - 113 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Obama Touts Equal-Pay bill at Signing Ceremony
NBCNews.com
498 U Irwin
, p. 95 - 96
Crossref
These principles are discussed in Justice Stevens' and Justice Ginsburg's dissent in
John R. Sand & Gravel Co. v , volume 130 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,265
RANK
218,252
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies