Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implementation of Internal Auditing in Greece

16 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2012

Georgios Kontogeorgis

Panteion University of Athens - Department of Public Administration

John Filos

Panteion University of Athens - Panteion University of Political and Social Sciences

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of the paper is to examine the operation of internal auditing in Greece. It analyzes the definition of both internal auditing and internal controls. Special emphasis is placed on the analysis of its usefulness. Furthermore, this paper examines the role of International Internal Auditing Standards (IIAS) and Code of Ethics in the development of the profession of internal auditor.

This paper is updated with the latest developments regarding internal audit issues in Greece. Special emphasis is placed on the analysis of the adoption of IIAS in Greece. The application of the principles of IIAS can be a tool for improving the competitiveness of Greek enterprises. The improvement of competitiveness can help Greece to overcome the economic crisis.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, International Internal Audit Standards (IIAS), Greece

JEL Classification: K22, K23, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kontogeorgis, Georgios and Filos, John, The Implementation of Internal Auditing in Greece (December 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2183615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2183615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R Aguilera , A Cuervo-Cazurra
Codes of good governance worldwide: What is the Trigger?
Organisation Studies , volume 25 , p. 415 - 443 Posted: 2004
Crossref
N Baker
A renewed framework
The Internal Auditor , volume 66 , p. 55 - 59 Posted: 2009
A Ballas
Privatizing the statutory auditing services in Greece
Αccounting Business and Financial History , volume 9 , p. 349 - 373 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A Cain
Practices/Update
The Internal Auditor , volume 69 , issue 1 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,170
RANK
122,537
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Codes of Good Governance

By Ruth V. Aguilera and Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra

Institutional and Strategic Choice Perspectives on Board Involvement in the Strategic Decision Process

By William Q. Judge and Carl P. (dean) Zeithaml

Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger?

By Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra and Ruth V. Aguilera

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies