Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Measure Intangible Resources in Listed Companies

Theory of management 5 The Selected Problems for the Development Support of Management Knowledge Base, Faculty of Management Science and Informatics publication, University of Zilina, pp. 224-249, ISBN 978-80-554-0590-2, 2012

7 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2012

Karol Śledzik

University of Gdansk, Faculty of Management

Date Written: December 2, 2012

Abstract

The principal problems associated with the concept of intellectual capital (except for the lack of recognized definition) includes the lack of a recognized standard of valuation. This prevents investors and other stakeholders to compare companies in the markets. Most studies concerning the measurement of intangible resources relates to companies in such industries as biotechnology, aerospace, computer software, cosmetics, healthcare, Internet, media, advertising, pharmaceuticals and computer industry. The main goal of this paper is to present advantages and disadvantages of most popular intellectual capital valuation ratios which can be used in listed companies.

Keywords: intangible resources, intellectual capital, listed companies, intangibles valuation

JEL Classification: G32, O3, O16

Suggested Citation:

Śledzik, Karol, How to Measure Intangible Resources in Listed Companies (December 2, 2012). Theory of management 5 The Selected Problems for the Development Support of Management Knowledge Base, Faculty of Management Science and Informatics publication, University of Zilina, pp. 224-249, ISBN 978-80-554-0590-2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2183870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
K E Sveiby
Methods for Measuring Intangible Assets Posted: 2010
J H Daum
Intangible Assets and Value creation Posted: 2002
D Andriessen
Making sense of Intellectual capital, Designing a method for the valuation of intangibles Posted: 2004
L Edvinsson , M S Malone
Intellectual Capital: Realizing your Company's True Value by Finding its Hidden Brainpower Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,439
RANK
470,088
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies