Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Live with a Tax Code with Which You Disagree: Doctrine, Optimal Tax, Common Sense, and the Debt-Equity Distinction

North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 88, No. 4, pp. 1217-1273, 2010

58 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2012

Ilan Benshalom

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2010

Abstract

The current financial crisis and recession demonstrate the overwhelming social cost of high leverage. While many factors contributed to the development of the crisis, one factor is frequently overlooked — the tax incentive for excessive debt financing. This article explains how the debt-equity distinction in the tax code provides corporations with incentives to rely on highly leveraged finance structures. It then asserts that even though there is little justification for the tax code to favor debt over equity investment, this bias is deeply rooted and hard to overcome. Given the political difficulty in eliminating the distinction, policy makers and academics should develop a debt-equity distinction with lower social costs. However, both doctrine and academic literature fail to address this problem because the current legal discourse responds to rules that were developed in the first half of the twentieth century. In those days, the corporate tax was primarily imposed on private and closely held corporations, there was a huge difference between individual and corporate tax rates, financial engineering was limited, and the vast majority of investors and corporations were United States tax residents. None of these conditions applies today, and, as a result, the tax rules distinguishing debt from equity unnecessarily increase the social costs of compliance, and, more importantly, the costs of financial distress. Remarkably, the current rules are ineffective even in preventing tax revenue loss because they fail to recognize the weakest link in terms of tax erosion — interest payments made to foreign investors. These payments may escape United States taxation altogether because they are deductible from the corporate tax.

This article develops a more practical and easily administrable distinction between debt and equity based on two easy-to-observe and difficult-to-manipulate characteristics — voting power and duration. This new distinction should be used to classify the holdings of domestic investors in public corporations. Further, the analysis of the debt-equity distinction triggers a broader theoretical inquiry over the principles that should guide tax policy makers in line-drawing problems. As a theoretical matter, these problems arise where there is a need to distinguish between two transactions which result in dramatically different tax consequences even though they could be economically very similar.

Suggested Citation:

Benshalom, Ilan, How to Live with a Tax Code with Which You Disagree: Doctrine, Optimal Tax, Common Sense, and the Debt-Equity Distinction (May 1, 2010). North Carolina Law Review, Vol. 88, No. 4, pp. 1217-1273, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2184542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
See Schlunk, supra note 124 , p. 861 - 62
Archimedean point" is a theoretical position from which one can objectively analyze the totality of the subject under observation. See Michael Shermer, The Really Hard Science
SCI. AM , volume 44 Posted: 2007-10
See Weisbach, supra note 18 , p. 1673 - 74
the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 150, which limited the ability to treat MIPS as equity for financial accounting purposes. FIN. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BD., STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NO. 150 app. A, at A4 Posted: 2003-05
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
618,773
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies