Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Once a Failed REMIC, Never a REMIC

Cayman Financial Review, Vol. 30, 2013

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 317

13 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2012

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

David J. Reiss

Cornell University - Law School; Cornell University - Cornell Tech NYC

Date Written: December 5, 2012

Abstract

This article analyses how courts may reach results that undercut arguments that REMICs were the owners of the mortgage notes and mortgages for tax purposes. And even if the majority of states rule in favor of REMICs, the few that do not can destroy the REMIC classification of many mortgage-back securities that were structured to be — and promoted to investors as — REMICs. This is because rating agencies require that REMICs be geographically diversified in order to spread the risk of defaults caused by local economic conditions, REMICs hold notes and mortgages from multiple jurisdictions. Most, if not all, REMICs own mortgages notes and mortgages from states governed by laws that the courts determine do not support REMIC eligibility for the mortgages from those jurisdictions. This diversification requirement makes it very likely that REMICs will have more than a de minimis amount of mortgages notes that do not come within the definition of qualified mortgage under the REMIC regulations. Professionals who helped structure these securitizations may face liability if the IRS were to find that a purported REMIC was just purported and not a REMIC.

Keywords: mortgage-backed securities, MBS, Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, REMIC, beneficial ownership

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Reiss, David J., Once a Failed REMIC, Never a REMIC (December 5, 2012). Cayman Financial Review, Vol. 30, 2013, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 317, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2185420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
so far, and its failure probably contributed to the financial crisis to some extent. See Bradley T. Borden, Did the IRS Cause the Financial Crisis?
HUFFINGTON POST Posted: 2012-10-18
See IRC § , volume 860 , issue 4
Crossref
)(i)
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 860 - 861
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 860 - 861
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
450
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,264
RANK
147,152
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies