Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
e-Commerce and Taxation: Past, Present and Future

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 4, October 2012, pp. 25-33

Posted: 5 Dec 2012

Priyanka Meharia

Eastern Michigan University

Date Written: December 4, 2012

Abstract

The study provides a detailed overview of the past and present state of collection on sales tax on e-commerce transactions. It examines the ways in which e-commerce influences taxation, the implications for not taxing e-commerce, and the potential for other mechanisms to collect revenue from online sales such as use tax and sales tax. The study analyzes how sales tax was calculated in the past by providing a background on the Internet Tax Freedom Act, Court rulings and Governmental decrees, Streamlined sales tax initiative and the Rule of permanent establishment for calculating tax jurisdiction. Further, the study provides an overview of the software available to track sales tax by states and concludes that it is extremely unlikely that e-commerce will not be taxed in the near future. The study throws some light on the emerging issues related to sales tax on e-commerce sales in the US.

Suggested Citation:

Meharia, Priyanka, e-Commerce and Taxation: Past, Present and Future (December 4, 2012). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XI, No. 4, October 2012, pp. 25-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2185191
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies