Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Effect of Foreign Currency Volatility on Foreign Capital: The Case of Turkey

15 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2012

Cenap Ilter

California State University

Date Written: December 7, 2012

Abstract

This paper, explores devaluation as a reason for the lack of long term foreign capital investments in countries such as Turkey. It touches the application of International Accounting Standards in Turkish Capital Market as Turkey’s being a candidate for European Union. The detrimental consequences of applying existing taxation rules on the financial statements of foreign invested capital in Turkey is investigated by means of a case study. Suggestions are made for tax rule change in order to attract more foreign investment flow to Turkey.

Keywords: Inflation, devaluation, foreign currency, foreign exchange loss

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Ilter, Cenap, Exploring the Effect of Foreign Currency Volatility on Foreign Capital: The Case of Turkey (December 7, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2186700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M S Bazaz , D L Senteney
Value Relevance of Unrealized Foreign Currency Translation: Gains and Losses
American Journal of Business , volume 16 , issue 2 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Gordon Bodnar , Eli Bartov
Foreign Currency Translation Reporting and the Exchange Rate Exposure Effect
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 1995
Canadian Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2007
Crossref
Accounting standards at capital markets, Decree Serial: XI, no: 25. www.spk.gov.tr/mevzuat/mevzuat_index.html Central Bank of Turkey Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,885
RANK
708,404
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies