Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fraudulent Money Transfers to Suppliers and Top Managers within Group Companies: A Case from Turkey

15 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2012

Cenap Ilter

California State University

Date Written: December 7, 2012

Abstract

Three conditions of fraud arising from fraudulent financial reporting and misappropriations of assets are described in Section 5135.012 of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants Assurance Handbook titled “The Auditor's Responsibility to Consider Fraud and Error.” These three conditions are referred to as the fraud triangle. Despite new laws and regulations, companies still face enormous pressure to meet short-term financial goals, creating a powerful motive for accounting fraud. Outsized executive compensation grows by the year, offering another rich incentive to cook the books. Namely the fraud triangle has three corners: Incentives/pressures, opportunities, attitudes/rationalization. The case is the first event within one group company called Volcano during our examination of its financial statements for the years 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 (until August 31). The company belonged to a group which was taken over by the semi-governmental Saving Deposit Insurance Fund as a consequence of the group's bank's failure to meet its liabilities. The case shows how a cash rich company's resources are drained to outsiders and group managers by its manipulative top management.

Keywords: Accounting fraud, illegal guarantees, collaterals

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Ilter, Cenap, Fraudulent Money Transfers to Suppliers and Top Managers within Group Companies: A Case from Turkey (December 7, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2186701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Chad Albrecht , Albrecht Conan , C Dolan , Simon
Financial Statement Fraud: Learn from the Mistakes of the U.S. or follow in the Footsteps of their Errors
Paper submitted for publication at: European Business Forum , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2007-02
Alvin A Elder , Randal J Beasley , Mark S Splettstoesser-Hoetgrep , Ingrid B
Auditing and Other Assurance Services Posted: 2005
Coenen Tracy
Essential of Corporate Fraud Posted: 2008
Frankel Tamar
Regulating the Financial Markets by Examinations
Boston University School of Law Working Paper , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2009-02-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
697,815
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Intent in Tort Law

By Keith N. Hylton

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies