Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness and Efficiency of Public Accounts Committees (PACs) in Enhancing Oversight and Accountability in the Public Sector

2012 SALSA Development Seminar, 2-5 October 2012, East London, Eastern Cape, South Africa

18 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2012

Rudzani Makhado

Limpopo Legislature

Kgabo Masehela

Limpopo Legislature

R. Mokhari

Limpopo Legislature

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Public Accounts Committees (PACs) has significant role to play in enhancing oversight and accountability for the use of public funds. This paper discusses the role of PACs in promoting effective, efficient and economic (EEEs) use of public resources for the benefit of the public. It also provides the theoretical background, practical experiences and challenges faced by PACs in executing their mandate. The question addressed in this article is “whether PACs within the respective Legislatures are effective and efficient in performing their mandate as enshrined in the Constitution”. Based on empirical evidence of financial misconduct, fraudulent activities, and corruption cases in the public sector, it is argued that more still need to be done by the PACs in order to continuously improve its work. Institutions such as APAC, Auditor General, National Treasury and South Africa Legislative Sector need to continuously capacitate PACs Members and support staff on oversight and accountability best practices so that those committees can be effective and efficient in executing their mandates. Considering challenges faced by PACs, several recommendations were also proposed in order to address those challenges.

Keywords: oversight, accountability, public accounts committee, effectiveness, efficiency

JEL Classification: G30, G31, G32, G34, G38, H39, H50, H51, H52, H53, H54, H55, H56, H57, H58, H59, H60, H61, H62, H63

Suggested Citation:

Makhado, Rudzani and Masehela, Kgabo and Mokhari, R., Effectiveness and Efficiency of Public Accounts Committees (PACs) in Enhancing Oversight and Accountability in the Public Sector (2012). 2012 SALSA Development Seminar, 2-5 October 2012, East London, Eastern Cape, South Africa, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2186304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,995
RANK
133,571
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies