Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Analysis of the Empirical Researches on Comprehensive Income Value Relevance

European Journal of Scientific Research, Vol. 76, No. 4, pp. 587-594, 2012

8 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2012 Last revised: 11 Dec 2012

Olga Ferraro

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Stefania Veltri

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

The issuing of the SFAS 130 in 1997 and subsequently of the revision of IAS 1 in 2007 became current again the long-standing debate between the ‘all-inclusive’ (or ‘comprehensive income’) and ‘current operating’ performance concepts. The accounting standards required firms to report in the financial statements the Comprehensive Income (CI), as the sum of net income (NI) and other comprehensive income (OCI) components. Empirical studies tried to provide evidence of the value relevance for investors of CI/OCI information. Previous archival researches document mixed evidence, and the majority of them has not found consistent support for the value relevance of CI/OCI and its components. The main aim of the paper is to investigate whether the aggregate CI/OCI provide investors with an added value in terms of information content with respect to NI by critically analyzing the findings of previous researches under three main key research aspects: value relevance test, value relevance approach, OCI measures. In sum, our contribution to the CI value relevance literature lies in the critical analysis of the main extant studies, and in systematizing archival research providing some reflections on the reasons why of the mixed results.

Keywords: comprehensive income, IAS1 revised, literature review, other comprehensive income, SFAS 130, value relevance

JEL Classification: M41, G14

Suggested Citation:

Ferraro, Olga and Veltri, Stefania, A Critical Analysis of the Empirical Researches on Comprehensive Income Value Relevance (May 1, 2012). European Journal of Scientific Research, Vol. 76, No. 4, pp. 587-594, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2187283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,192
RANK
118,334
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies