Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Intellectual Capital in Health Care Organizations: Specifics, Lessons Learned, and Future Research Perspectives

Journal of Health Care Finance, Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 80-97, 2011

16 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2012 Last revised: 13 Dec 2012

Stefania Veltri

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Giovanni Bronzetti

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Graziella Sicoli

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

This article analyzes the concept of Intellectual Capital (IC) in the sphere of the health sector, by studying the case of a major nonprofit research organization in this sector which has for some time been publishing IC reports (ICR). In the last few years, health care organizations have been the object of great attention in terms of the implementation and transfer of managerial models and tools, yet there is still a lack of attention paid to the strategic management of IC as a fundamental resource for supporting and enhancing performance improvement dynamics. The main aim of the present article is to examine the IC reporting model used in a health organization which is considered to be an outstanding benchmark of excellence in reporting its IC, the Swedish Centre of Molecular Medicine (CMM). This with a view to underlining the specifics of IC reporting for health organizations, the lessons learned by analyzing CCM’s IC reporting, and to outline future perspectives for research.

Beyond the journal formatting, please note that there could be major changes from this document to the final published version

This article is (c) Wolters Kluwer Law and Business and permission has been granted for this version to appear here: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2187946

Keywords: intellectual capital report, health sector, case study

Suggested Citation:

Veltri, Stefania and Bronzetti, Giovanni and Sicoli, Graziella, Reporting Intellectual Capital in Health Care Organizations: Specifics, Lessons Learned, and Future Research Perspectives (2011). Journal of Health Care Finance, Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 80-97, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2187946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,657
RANK
256,498
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies