Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs and Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

29 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2012

Zachary Berkstresser, JD, MBA, MS-RMI, ARM

University of Connecticut - Insurance Law Center

Date Written: December 10, 2012

Abstract

This paper considers the economic consequences of Pub.L. 107-204, more commonly known as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). SOX is an act passed by U.S. Congress in 2002 to protect investors from the possibility of fraudulent accounting activities by corporations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) mandates strict reforms to improve financial disclosures from corporations and prevent accounting fraud. SOX was enacted in response to the accounting scandals in the early 2000s. Scandals such as Enron, Waste Management, and WorldCom shook investor confidence in financial statements and brought about an overhaul of regulatory standards. I will address what SOX is, what it does, and the reasons for it; namely, audit and analyst failures. Next I will consider the economic implications of SOX, including its costs, benefits, and market based alternatives. Finally I will discuss the efficiency of the law itself from a Governmental standpoint, ie. litigation regarding SOX. I hope to show that through the Courts and market based solutions regulations such as SOX are inefficient and the practical outcome can be achieved in a more efficient manner.

Keywords: enron, sarbanes-oxley, law and economics, audit, financial analysis

JEL Classification: D82, G18, K22, L51

Suggested Citation:

Berkstresser, Zachary, The Costs and Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (December 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2187175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2187175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,873
RANK
161,684
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies