Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Professional Qualification on Customers’ Perceived Quality of Accounting Services and Retention Decision

32 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2012

Maja Zaman Groff

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Economics

Neza Stumberger

University of Ljubljana

Sergeja Slapničar

University of Queensland

Date Written: December 12, 2012

Abstract

Considering the significance of small and micro firms for the European economy and increasing importance of financial reporting quality, surprisingly little discussion is related to minimum requirements for professionals preparing their financial reports. The purpose of the paper is to examine whether professional qualification increases the quality of accounting services as perceived by the customers. We advance the measurement of service quality by industry specific indicators and establish four dimensions of accounting service quality. We analyse the impact of professional qualification on separate dimensions of quality and their impact on customers’ retention decision. The analysis is based on the survey data among 237 small and micro firms that outsource accounting. We find that professional qualification is positively associated only with accountant’s competences. Perceived competences affect other dimensions of perceived service quality – assurance, reliability, responsiveness and empathy and only these latter dimensions are associated with customers’ retention decision. Limitations of the study are contributed to the measurement of service quality as perceived by the customers. Yet, this is the only factor of choice that ultimately counts in the competitive market for accounting services. The findings contribute to the debate whether it would be beneficial to enforce more formal requirements for the professional accountants.

Keywords: accounting services, accounting professional qualification, small and micro firms, service quality, retention

JEL Classification: L84, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zaman Groff, Maja and Stumberger, Neza and Slapničar, Sergeja, The Influence of Professional Qualification on Customers’ Perceived Quality of Accounting Services and Retention Decision (December 12, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2188578 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2188578
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
M Aga , O Veli Safakli
An empirical investigation of service quality and customer satisfaction in professional accounting firms: Evidence from North Cyprus. Problems and perspectives in management , volume 5 , p. 84 - 98 Posted: 2007
G Aldhizer , L Turner , M Shank
Determinants of consulting service quality for accounting and nonaccouting service providers
Journal of information systems , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Annual report on small and medium-sized enterprises in the EU Posted: 2011
2012: at the crossroads. European Commission Posted: 2012-09
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
349,147
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Experimental Research in Financial Accounting

By Robert Libby, Robert J. Bloomfield, ...

Comprehensive Income Disclosures and Analysts' Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst and Patrick E. Hopkins

Fair Values, Comprehensive Income Reporting, and Bank Analysts' Risk and Valuation Judgments

By D. Eric Hirst, Patrick E. Hopkins, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies