Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VAT Triangulation with a US Middleman VSTR, C-587/10

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-55

10 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2012 Last revised: 15 Jan 2013

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: December 14, 2012

Abstract

It is not every day that an American firm finds itself in the middle of an EU VAT controversy that significantly develops the law. However, the September 27, 2012 decision of the European Court of Justice (ECJ) does just that. The case is Vogtländische Straβen-,Tief- und Rohrleitungsbau GmbH Rodewisch (VSTR) v. Finanzamt Plauen.

In November 1998 Atlantic International Trading Company (AIT), an American company established in New York, NY, purchased two stone-crushers from VSTR, a firm established in Germany. AIT quickly re-sold the stone-crushers to an end user established in Finland. The VSTR/AIT contract was “ex works,” that is AIT was responsible for transporting the goods from Germany, and AIT did this by hiring a heavy equipment transport company to move the goods by road and sea directly to Finland (not first to the USA, and then to Finland).

The VAT treatment of ABC transactions can be complex. The VAT Directive contains no specific rules for triangular transactions, but it does have a mechanism (Article 141) that provides simplified treatment for one specific type of ABC transaction. This treatment is so favorable for B, that it is common for traders to design their trades to fit the simplification mandate.

Triangulation case law has been developing. The most notable developments are the recent cases of EMAG Handel Eder OHG v. Finanzlandesdirektion für Kärnten (Berufungssenat II), followed by Euro Tyre Holding v. Staatssecretaris van Financiën, and Both of these cases impact the VSTR decision. Collectively, these three cases define our present understanding of triangulation.

This paper presents the law in this area, with particular attention to third country middleman who, like AIT, may find themselves facilitating ABC transactions with EU participants, but who are denied the benefits of simplification because of their place of establishment. The paper concludes that because of penalties provisions in each of the Member States it is advisable for third-country middlemen to register in one Member State and adopt simplified triangulation reporting.

Keywords: VSTR, Case C-587/10, EMAG, Euro Tyre, Triangulation, Simplification Triangulation, VAT ID

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson, VAT Triangulation with a US Middleman VSTR, C-587/10 (December 14, 2012). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-55, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2189467 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2189467
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,004
RANK
302,340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies