Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transfer Pricing Regs Need a Good Edit

Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, 2013

26 Pages Posted: 16 May 2013

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: May 14, 2013

Abstract

The U.S. government has broad discretion to change the transfer pricing regulations as they apply to corporate multinationals. These regulations need changing because they give too much leeway to taxpayers and will continue to serve an important function in the division of international tax jurisdiction regardless of the fate of pending reform proposals. U.S. tax administrators should write revised transfer pricing rules that afford taxpayers less contracting freedom. They should incrementally add formulaic elements to rules and use high-friction, nontax reference points such as employee location.

Incremental formulary changes carry less risk than the sweeping adoption of a global formulary apportionment standard. Although such changes might appear to present a tension with longstanding treaty commitments to the arm’s length standard in transfer pricing, as articulated by OECD, a developing global consensus supports increased incremental use of formulary methods. Treaty partners might well accept and perhaps follow such changes, particularly if they resulted in the allocation of income away from low-tax affiliates and toward treaty partner jurisdictions as well as the U.S..

Keywords: transfer pricing, regulatory discretion, formulary, incremental

JEL Classification: K33, K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., The Transfer Pricing Regs Need a Good Edit (May 14, 2013). Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2189576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
169 revenue procedures, and 292 notices over a three year period. See Mann, supra
See Mayo Found
For Med. Educ. & Research v. United States, 131 S. Ct , volume 704 , p. 711 - 726
U S A See Generally Chevron
Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council, Inc., 467 U.S , volume 837 , p. 842 - 887 Posted: 1984
Kristin E Hickman
Unpacking the Force of Law, 66 VAND
L. REV Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,499
RANK
451,566
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies