Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choking Out Local Community Service Organizations: Rising Federal Tax Regulation and Its Impact on Small Nonprofit Entities

Kentucky Law Journal, Vol. 99, 2011

MSU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 10-28

29 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2012

Nicole Dandridge

Michigan State University - College of Law

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Small community nonprofit and charitable organizations are a vital component of American life and culture. These organizations encourage community collaboration and are in-tune with the acute needs of their respective local populations. In the face of pressure to downsize government and reduce federal, state, and local spending, small nonprofits have become integral to delivering basic human and social goods and services to the public. These groups endure almost solely on donations of time and money and do not have cash reserves or extensive assets that will allow them to hire legal or other professional counsel to assist in business and legal compliance matters.

Obtaining and maintaining Internal Revenue Code (IRC) § 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status allows the balance of these groups to operate as viable entities by opening the door to vast grant and donation opportunities with which to fund their programs. Gaining tax-exempt status requires in-depth business and financial planning and a complex application process, which many small nonprofits complete without the benefit of counsel. Until recently, small nonprofit organizations were subject to modest federal regulatory compliance measures in excess of compliance with the tax code under which they gained exemption.

Over the past decade, in the name of strengthening transparency, accountability, and governance, Congress and the IRS have increased federal regulation of nonprofit and charitable entities, which includes many measures that were otherwise within the purview of state rule, and have not spared small nonprofits in this effort. New regulations of significant interest to small nonprofit groups include the 2004 revision of the federal application for tax-exempt status, which now includes extensive governance provisions, and the new annual reporting requirement for small nonprofits and revocation of tax-exempt status for consecutive non-filing, pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006. This increase in regulation creates a certain “federalization” of nonprofit law that has overly burdensome consequences on valuable small nonprofit organizations with limited resources.

This Article begins by identifying and describing the unique and essential roles of, and challenges that face, small nonprofit tax-exempt organizations and their leaders. This Article then reviews the promulgation of new and heightened federal regulatory requirements that most concern small nonprofit groups and the impact and implications of these regulations. Informed by the theoretical models of Responsive Regulation and New Governance, this Article concludes by offering a reasonable regulatory approach as it relates to the restoration of federal tax-exempt status for small nonprofits facing revocation of tax exemption for failure to file consecutive annual returns.

Keywords: Community Economic Development, Small Business, Nonprofit, Tax Regulation, Social Capital

Suggested Citation:

Dandridge, Nicole, Choking Out Local Community Service Organizations: Rising Federal Tax Regulation and Its Impact on Small Nonprofit Entities (2011). Kentucky Law Journal, Vol. 99, 2011, MSU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 10-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2190364
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,297
RANK
687,646
231 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies