Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit and Earnings Management in Spanish SMEs

Business Research Quarterly, 19 (3), 171-187, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.brq.2015.12.001

17 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2012 Last revised: 1 Jun 2016

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 19, 2016

Abstract

Evidence about the relation between earnings management and voluntary audits is scarce, and there is no research about the effectiveness of mandatory audits to improve earnings quality. Using a sample of Spanish SMEs, where some companies are mandatorily audited and some are exempt from audit, we examine if audits, either mandatory or voluntary, help to improve accounting quality by constraining earnings management. We also examine differences between voluntary and mandatory audits, as well as the role of Big 4 and Middle-Tier auditors. After controlling for other characteristics that affect earnings management, we find that audited companies have lower absolute discretionary accruals, but do not find significant differences among auditors. Voluntary audits also restrain earnings management, but in a lesser extent than mandatory audits. When we use signed accruals, audits are only effective against income-increasing behaviours, what is explained by the auditor conservatism. Additional analyses support the results obtained.

Keywords: auditing, earnings management, Spain, SMEs

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Huguet, David and Gandía, Juan L., Audit and Earnings Management in Spanish SMEs (February 19, 2016). Business Research Quarterly, 19 (3), 171-187, 2016, DOI: 10.1016/j.brq.2015.12.001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2190990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2190990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,040
RANK
133,890
4 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Value of Verification in Debt Financing: Evidence from Private U.S. Firms

By Michael Minnis

Voluntary Audits and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Jeong-bon Kim, Dan A. Simunic, ...

Voluntary Audit and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Dan A. Simunic, Jeong-bon Kim, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies