Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Added Value of Auditing in Belgium: Does Audit Remain If No Longer Mandatory?

31 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2012

Diane Breesch

Vrije Universiteit Brussel

Kris Hardies

University of Antwerp

Jan De Muylder

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB)

Date Written: December 17, 2012

Abstract

In Belgium, all “large” companies are legally required to appoint a statutory auditor. The thresholds of the criteria to be considered “large” are, however, not that large. Consequently, many relative small companies in Belgium are legally required to appoint a statutory auditor. The evidence on the added value of auditing in small companies remains to date, however, rather scant and is often contradictory. In this study, we, therefore, tried to assess if companies in Belgium would still appoint an auditor if they would no longer be required to do so. Additionally, we also examined which factors would contribute to the voluntary appointment of auditors by companies in Belgium. Our results (based upon an email questionnaire, n=288) show that the majority (nearly 65%) of companies in Belgium would still appoint an auditor if they would no longer be required to do so. The most important reasons why companies would keep on hiring an auditor (i.e., the added value of the audit) are the fact that audits improve the credibility of financial statements, the fact that audits improve the internal control systems of companies, and because audits impose financial discipline on a company. Furthermore, our study indicates that larger companies, companies with more shareholders, and listed companies are more inclined to voluntarily appoint an auditor.

Keywords: voluntary audit, mandatory audit, added value, audit demand

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Breesch, Diane and Hardies, Kris and De Muylder, Jan, The Added Value of Auditing in Belgium: Does Audit Remain If No Longer Mandatory? (December 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2190396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2190396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
A Admati , P Pfleiderer
Forcing firms to talk: financial disclosure regulation and externalities
Review of Financial Studies , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 479 - 519 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S Bar-Yosef , J Livnat
Auditor selection: An incentive-signaling approach
Accounting & Business Research , volume 14 , issue 564 , p. 301 - 309 Posted: 1984
Crossref
J Barton , G Waymire
Investor protection under unregulated financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 116 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Baruch
Response rate in academic studies: A comparative analysis
Human Relations , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 438 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
380
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,228
RANK
178,711
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Role of Auditing in Small Private Family Firms: Is it About Quality or Credibility?

By Mervi Niskanen, Jukka Karjalainen, ...

Demand for Audit Quality in Small Private Firms: Evidence on Ownership Effects

By Mervi Niskanen, Jukka Karjalainen, ...

Small Business Borrowing and the Owner-Manager Agency Costs: Evidence on Finnish Data

By Mervi Niskanen and Jyrki Niskanen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies