Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Narrative and Tax Compliance

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 14

21 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2012 Last revised: 3 Dec 2013

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: September 24, 2013

Abstract

Some noncompliant taxpayers fall outside the reach of third-party withholding and reporting. Revenue agencies may use enforcement and/or prosocial strategies to encourage compliance among such taxpayers. Revenue agencies should stand ready to use narrative as part of these efforts, despite implementation challenges. This is because of the persuasive capacity of narrative. It is also because media will likely create a narrative around any prominent strategy, and the media narrative may not further the goals of the agency.

Keywords: narrative, tax compliance, enforcement, prosocial

JEL Classification: H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., Narrative and Tax Compliance (September 24, 2013). UC Hastings Research Paper No. 14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2191216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2191216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,281
RANK
252,723
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Using Salience and Influence to Narrow the Tax Gap

By Susan C. Morse

Tax Penalties and Tax Compliance

By Michael Doran

Tax Compliance and Norm Formation Under High-Penalty Regimes

By Susan C. Morse

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies