Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Academic Research on FIN 48: What Have We Learned? Prepared for the Financial Accounting Foundations’ Post-Implementation Review of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48

44 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2012 Last revised: 10 Jul 2013

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: October 31, 2011

Abstract

This paper is the academic literature review delivered to the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) in October 2011 as part of a post-implementation review (PIR). The FAF determined in 2009 that the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standard setting process required a formal review to monitor and address issues that can arise after the implementation of accounting standards. The FAF selected FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, as the initial PIR standard. Moreover, the FAF identified academic research related to the chosen standard as an important input into the PIR. As such, academics with expertise on the selected standard are identified to provide a written summary of the literature, with the objective of making the research more accessible.

Keywords: FIN 48, post-implementation review, financial accounting foundation

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Robinson, Leslie, Academic Research on FIN 48: What Have We Learned? Prepared for the Financial Accounting Foundations’ Post-Implementation Review of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 (October 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2191137 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2191137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,461
RANK
167,202
4 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Empirical Tax Research in Accounting

By Douglas A. Shackelford and Terry J. Shevlin

Earnings Management: New Evidence Based on Deferred Tax Expense

By John D. Phillips, Morton Pincus, ...

An Evaluation of Alternative Measures of Corporate Tax Rates

By George Plesko

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies