Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparing Indonesia Skilled Labor in the Field of Accounting, Finance and Capital Market for ASEAN Economic Community 2015

1st International Conference on Business, International Relation and Diplomacy (ICOBIRD), 2012

5 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2012 Last revised: 15 Feb 2013

Evi Steelyana W

BINUS University (Bina Nusantara), Jakarta, Indonesia

Date Written: November 7, 2012

Abstract

In the year 2015 when ASEAN Economic Community will be opened, there are five things which consider as critical points and there are free flow of goods, free flow of services, skilled labor, free flow of foreign direct investment fund and capital. This paper will focus the fifth point: skilled labor. Serious attention is needed because the structure of Indonesian workers filled with unskilled labor. Approximately 70 % of Indonesia workforce were only Junior High School Graduate. Only 5% of population in Indonesia graduated from university. So that the quality of Indonesian human resources is still need to be improved. Especially skilled labor in the field of accounting, finance and capital market. Governments still have time (though short) to face ASEAN economic community, especially in skilled labor. Manpower in the field of accounting and finance needs to meet certain qualifications to be able to compete globally and regionally. Associated with the ASEAN Economic Community 2015, then this paper will give an overview about what qualifications are required in 2015 especially in areas of finance and accounting, as well as education system that can support the qualification standard of skilled labor. Then Indonesia could compete in the era of the ASEAN Economic Community 2015, especially the highly educated workforce.

Keywords: ASEAN, ASEAN Economic Community, skilled labor in accounting and finance, education system, qualification to compete globally

Suggested Citation:

Steelyana W, Evi, Preparing Indonesia Skilled Labor in the Field of Accounting, Finance and Capital Market for ASEAN Economic Community 2015 (November 7, 2012). 1st International Conference on Business, International Relation and Diplomacy (ICOBIRD), 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2193026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,374
RANK
102,586
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Labor: Human Capital eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Managing Capital Flows in an Economic Community: The Case of ASEAN Capital Account Liberalization

By Yung Chul Park and Shinji Takagi

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies