Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why External Auditors Will be Assuming a More Prominent Role in 2013: The 'Old Lady' Makes her Much Anticipated Comeback (with Greater Powers)

Posted: 23 Dec 2012

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

Date Written: December 23, 2012

Abstract

One reason put forward for the decision to grant the Bank of England greater powers is the opinion that 'Technocrats are thought to do a better job of ensuring financial and price stability than politicians, because their decisions are not distorted by the pressure to win elections.' Even though various other reasons persist and constitute valid (as well as solid) grounds for endowing the Bank with greater powers, there is no doubt that the relationship between bank supervisors and external auditors has deteriorated since the more politically inclined Financial Services Authority took over in 1997.

Will Mark Carney's era signify the return of the prominent role to be assumed by external auditors in bank supervision – as intended under the Banking Act 1987? The Bank of England has also been quoted as acknowledging that: 'The working relationship between external auditors and the prudential supervisors had broken down in the period prior to the financial crisis. Prior to 2007, formal meetings between supervisors and external auditors no longer formed part of the routine supervisory framework and the informal channels of communication that existed when the Bank had responsibility for supervision had fallen away.'

Will 2013 signify the dawn of greater and much required developments in the area of external auditing – or the dawn of a new and radical Banking Act? It is certain that a lot will be expected from the Bank as well as from the new Governor. The role assumed by external auditors in financial supervision is without doubt, increasingly becoming appreciated - particularly in the aftermath of the recent Financial Crisis.

Keywords: LIBOR rate rigging, financial supervision, bank supervision, central banks, monetary policy, Mark Carney, Bank of England, Financial Services Authority

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, Why External Auditors Will be Assuming a More Prominent Role in 2013: The 'Old Lady' Makes her Much Anticipated Comeback (with Greater Powers) (December 23, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2193275
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
921
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies