Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Synergy Valuation Models: Towards the Real Value of Mergers and Acquisitions

INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH JOURNAL OF FINANCE AND ECONOMICS, issue 124, ISSN: 1450-2887

12 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2013 Last revised: 17 Oct 2014

Raffaele Fiorentino

University of Naples Parthenope

Stefano Garzella

University of Naples Parthenope

Date Written: January 2, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to examine the use and effectiveness of synergy valuation models in mergers and acquisitions (M&A). This paper advances the current debate on synergy and valuation models in accounting and finance studies. In particular, it answers the call for a detailed investigation of the failure rates of mergers and acquisitions, which have remained consistently high.Relevant literature is reviewed and critically assessed. An interpretive methodology is used to analyze empirical data from a questionnaire survey and interviews of M&A experts. M&A experts perceive net present value as the most frequently used and most appropriate valuation model. There is a strong consensus on the simultaneous use of multiple models as control models. The effectiveness of the synergy value depends more on the valuation path and the assessment process than on the models used. The strategic factors that are considered very relevant to generating reliable forecasts are, surprisingly, not adequately quantified. Indeed, there are several mismatches in valuation practices. This set of contributions is important for both scholars and practitioners. We highlight that the synergy assessment process and the effective use of synergy valuation models are critical points to cut the failure rate of mergers and acquisitions Our findings show the need to warn firms of the potential risks of inaccurate synergy estimations and, at the same time, suggest that an effective synergy assessment model have to be developed to increase the likelihood of M&A success. This is the first comprehensive investigation of synergy valuation models in M&A. The findings recommend that synergy valuation processes must rely on knowledge and experience from accounting as well as from other disciplines such as finance and management.

Keywords: synergy, valuation models, mergers, acquisitions, assessment process, value creation

JEL Classification: G34, G31, M4

Suggested Citation:

Fiorentino, Raffaele and Garzella, Stefano, The Synergy Valuation Models: Towards the Real Value of Mergers and Acquisitions (January 2, 2013). INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH JOURNAL OF FINANCE AND ECONOMICS, issue 124, ISSN: 1450-2887 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2195551 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2195551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Accenture
Strategy in Action. The synergy enigma Posted: 2007
J A Arnold , P Mozier
A survey of the methods used by UK investments analysts to appraise investments in ordinary shares
Accounting and Business Research , volume 14 , issue 55 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 1984
Crossref
H K Baker , T O Miller , B J Ramsperger
An Inside Look at Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions
MSU Business Topics , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 57 Posted: 1981
R G Barker
The role of dividends in valuation models used by analysts and fund managers
European Accounting Review , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 218 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,858
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,981
RANK
20,921
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Market for Corporate Control: The Scientific Evidence

By Richard S. Ruback and Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

New Evidence and Perspectives on Mergers

By Gregor Andrade, Mark L. Mitchell, ...

Do Managerial Objectives Drive Bad Acquisitions?

By Randall Morck, Andrei Shleifer, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies