Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Counterproductive Nature of Tax Expenditure Budgets

Tax Notes, Vol. 137, No. 12, December 2012

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 379

10 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2013

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: January 11, 2013

Abstract

Paradoxically, the tax expenditure movement has succeeded procedurally but failed substantively: As tax expenditure budgets were firmly implanted in the federal and state budget processes, tax expenditures burgeoned. An explanation for this paradox is that tax expenditure budgets highlight for some groups the tax-based largesse obtained by others. Tax expenditure budgets thereby legitimate tax expenditures and, in a classic case of unintended and counterproductive consequences, reinforce a scramble for parity in the form of comparable tax benefits. The profusion of tax expenditure budgets has signaled to interests seeking succor from the public fisc that pursuit of a tax expenditure is often a better political option than the pursuit of a direct spending proposal.

An old adage warns to be careful what you wish for; you may get it. Tax expenditure budgets, sought as devices to control and limit tax expenditures, have counterproductively stimulated the search for tax expenditures by highlighting for organized interests the benefits obtained by others through the tax system. The net effect, unintended by the advocates of tax expenditure analysis, has been to legitimate and expand tax expenditures.

Keywords: tax expenditures, tax expenditure budget, direct spending, entitlements, capture, salience, tax salience, upside down effect

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., The Counterproductive Nature of Tax Expenditure Budgets (January 11, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 137, No. 12, December 2012, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 379, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2199509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Mcdaniel Surrey
(describing ''the upside-down effect'' of tax expenditures that ''disproportionately benefit the upper-income groups , volume 4 , p. 71 - 72
E G See , Sarah Harwood
Many of the recipients were large, multinational corporations. For example, Cargill and other commodity traders received $4.2 billion in federal subsidies between 1980 and
U. Det. Mercy L. Rev , volume 377 , p. 386 - 387 Posted: 1990
Yasha Levine
The Making of Manhattan's Elite Welfare Farmers Posted: 2010-06-15
Twenty-three members of the 112th Congress, either directly or through family members, receive federal farm subsidies. Chris Campbell et al., ''Cut Spending -But Not My Farm Subsidies!'' Environmental Working Group Posted: 2011-03-29
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,792
RANK
330,157
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies