Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Occupy the Tax Code: Using the Estate Tax to Reduce Inequality and Spur Economic Growth

Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, p. 1255, 2013

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 280

U of Cincinnati Public Law Research Paper No. 13-02

36 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2013 Last revised: 31 Oct 2013

Paul L. Caron

Pepperdine University - Rick J. Caruso School of Law

James R. Repetti

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: January 13, 2013

Abstract

Inequality has been increasing in the United States. We should care about this increase because inequality contributes to a variety of adverse social consequences that persist across generations. There is also substantial empirical evidence that inequality has a long-term negative impact on economic growth.

For many decades, federal tax policy has played an important role in reducing inequality, although the impact of federal taxes on inequality has waxed and waned depending on the focus of elected officials. We argue that the estate tax is a particularly apt vehicle to reduce inequality because inheritances are a major source of wealth among the rich, and studies suggest that inherited wealth has a more deleterious impact on economic growth than inequality caused by self-made wealth. Although there are loopholes in the estate tax, it is still effective in moderating the amount of wealth that is passed within a family from generation to generation.

The major criticism about the estate tax — that it discourages savings — is inaccurate. Standard tax theory cannot predict the impact of the estate tax on savings and the empirical evidence is mixed. Moreover, the estate tax has a less harmful impact on savings than the income tax for two reasons. First, the event that triggers estate tax liability — death — is ignored by taxpayers during the period of life in which they are likely to be most productive. Second, the expected value of the estate tax’s effective rate is quite low during the period of life in which most taxpayers create wealth.

This article was published as part of a symposium sponsored by the Pepperdine Law Review and Tax Analysts, Tax Advice for the Second Obama Administration, 40 Pepp. L. Rev. 1143-1440 (2013). The Introduction to the Symposium, 40 Pepp. L. Rev. 1143 (2013), together with the Table of Contents, is available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=2220496.

Keywords: tax, estate tax, inequality, income inequality, wealth inequality

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Caron, Paul L. and Repetti, James R., Occupy the Tax Code: Using the Estate Tax to Reduce Inequality and Spur Economic Growth (January 13, 2013). Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, p. 1255, 2013, Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 280, U of Cincinnati Public Law Research Paper No. 13-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2200270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
See infra Part II
Crossref
See infra Part II.A-B
Crossref
See infra Part II.C
See infra Part III
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Phyllis Taite
Exploding Wealth Inequalities: Does Tax Policy Promote Social Justice or Social Injustice?
Western New England Law Review, Vol. 36, No. 3, 2014 · 14 Pages · Posted: 4 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
900
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,860
RANK
60,584
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies