Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Passthrough Entities: The Missing Link in Business Tax Reform

40 Pepperdine Law Review 1329 (2013)

San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 13-104

17 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2013 Last revised: 7 Jun 2013

Karen C. Burke

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: April 26, 2013

Abstract

Reform of the U.S. corporate tax system is again on the agenda. Despite important differences, many current proposals share two common goals: (1) reducing the statutory corporate tax rate to improve U.S. “international competitiveness” and (2) broadening the corporate tax base by reducing or eliminating business expenditures to offset revenue losses. Given the significance of the passthrough sector and the relationship between individual and corporate taxes, however, such reforms need to be considered within a broader context. Part I of this article discusses the growing significance of the passthrough sector, which now accounts for roughly half of net business income. Part II explores new incentives for retaining corporate earnings and mischaracterizing labor income that would arise from an increase in individual income tax rates coupled with a simultaneous decrease in corporate tax rates, and considers the feasibility of measures to curb such sheltering within corporations. Finally, Part III urges Congress to look beyond reducing business expenditures to expand the corporate tax base and recommends consideration of an entity-level tax on certain large partnerships.

Keywords: business tax reform, partnerships, capital gains, dividends, S corporations, compensation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Burke, Karen C., Passthrough Entities: The Missing Link in Business Tax Reform (April 26, 2013). 40 Pepperdine Law Review 1329 (2013), San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 13-104, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2200109
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
I R C See
A more radical approach would be to tax all passive income earned through corporations at the maximum individual rate, though this approach could be viewed as penalizing investment in corporate form. See Halperin, supra note 36, at 653. 62. Under current law, personal service corporations are already taxed at the maximum individual rate
See I.R.C. § § , volume 448 , issue d
U S See , Gov&apos;t Accountability , Office , Gao-
TAX GAP: ACTIONS NEEDED TO ADDRESS NONCOMPLIANCE WITH S CORPORATION TAX RULES , volume 25 Posted: 2003
See President&apos;s Econ , Recovery , Bd , The , Simplification , Compliance
Certain types of income, such as interest and rental income, would continue to be excluded from self-employment income. Cf. Schwidetzky, supra note 18 Posted: 2010
See Richard Winchester , ; L Stan , Pol&apos;y Rev
The number of owners dramatically affects the incentive to mischaracterize labor income as capital income. See CONG. BUDGET OFFICE, Pub. No. 4168, THE TAXATION OF CAPITAL AND LABOR THROUGH THE SELF-EMPLOYMENT TAX 14 (2012); see also
The Gap in the Employment Tax Gap , volume 127 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,658
RANK
202,182
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies