Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critique of the Concept of Measurement in Financial Accounting

25 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2013

Charles Richard Baker

Adelphi University - School of Business

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to discuss the concept of measurement in financial accounting, starting with an examination of the approach to measurement taken by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), followed by a summary of the general theory of measurement employed in the natural sciences, and finally a review of the arguments raised by various accounting theorists including Edwards and Bell, Chambers and Sterling. While agreeing generally with Sterling’s argument that enterprise income should be measured by the difference between owners’ equity (i.e. assets minus liabilities) at two points in time adjusted for investments and disinvestments, and also his argument that the difference in owners’ equity should be determined by the market (i.e. exit) prices of the net assets of the entity at the beginning and the end of the accounting period, the conclusion that the determination of exit prices is a “measurement” process is unfounded. This leads to the primary argument of this paper, which is that financial accounting “measurement” is not measurement.

Keywords: measurement, financial accounting, Sterling, IASB

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Baker, Charles Richard, A Critique of the Concept of Measurement in Financial Accounting (January 15, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2200860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2200860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
G Bergmann
The logic of measurement
Proceedings of the Sixth Hydraulics Conference , p. 19 - 33 Posted: 1956-06-13
K E Boulding
Economic Analysis, 3 Posted: 1955
N R Campbell
Account of the Principles of Measurement and Calculation
Longmans) Posted: 1928
Crossref
N R Campbell
Measurement and its importance to philosophy Posted: 1938
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,593
RANK
28,449
2 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies