Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Models and Audit Risk Assessment: An Investigation of Alternative Information Presentation Techniques

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

63 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2013

J. Efrim Boritz

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Kun Huo

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 6, 2013

Abstract

An effective audit plan starts with understanding of the client’s business risks. Though business risk assessment is a required component of audit risk assessment (ISA 315), there is little guidance regarding the best format for documenting business risks to support audit risk assessment; as a result, firms have used a variety of methods. While some literature emphasizes the advantages of using diagrams to display business models in preference to simple textual narrative representation, there is little empirical research on whether a diagrammatic representation can benefit auditors performing the risk assessment phase of the audit,. In an experiment, we provide participants (accounting students) with business risk models based on a real public company and test whether different informationally equivalent representation formats (diagram, table, or unstructured text/bullet points) affect their ability to identify audit risks in various financial statement accounts. We find that the tabular format out-performs both the unstructured text / bullet point formats and, surprisingly, the diagram does not. We attribute this to better identification of relevant items that impact audit risks. Second, we observe that tables also caused participants to focus more on irrelevant items that would decrease efficiency. Third, the amount of time taken on the task does not differ by representation format. Therese findings can help provide guidance on whether techniques such as those explored in the study should be further incorporated into accounting education, and which techniques seem to be most beneficial for auditing use.

Keywords: business models, audit risk, presentation techniques

Suggested Citation:

Boritz, Efrim and Huo, Kun, Business Models and Audit Risk Assessment: An Investigation of Alternative Information Presentation Techniques (January 6, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2200126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2200126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
P Alencar , J E Boritz , C Carnaghan
Approaches to Documenting Business Models Posted: 2008
T B Bell , M E Peecher , I Solomon
Cases in strategic-systems auditing Posted: 2002
T B Bell , F O Marrs , I Solomon , H Thomas
Auditing Organizations Through A Strategic Systems Lens Posted: 1997
J E Boritz
Audit documentation of complex systems
Symposium on Computers and Auditing November 15-18 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,262
RANK
207,517
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies