Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability to the Audit Committee: Running Risks and Managing Impressions

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

37 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2013

Tiphaine Compernolle

Université Laval - École de Comptabilité

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

The audit committee process is generally considered as a monitoring process: directors have to monitor managers and auditors to enhance quality of financial statements and transparency. Another way to consider the audit committee process could be to seeing it as an accountability process: a process during which managers and auditors become visible in accounting for their choices and actions, during which the definition of their selves is in question. From the analysis of 53 interviews with attendees of French CAC 40 audit committees’ meetings, we explore interactions during formal audit committee meetings and their consequences in terms of accountability. Accounting to the audit committee seems to be a matter of impressions management: preparing intensely in backstage and performing in the limelight of the front stage. Performance’s consistency and transparency, quality of actors would be the objects of directors’ scrutiny. Feelings of accountability created by formal audit committee meetings seem to be linked to the risk of losing face.

Keywords: audit committee process, accountability, impression management, risk of losing face, Goffman

Suggested Citation:

Compernolle, Tiphaine, Accountability to the Audit Committee: Running Risks and Managing Impressions (May 1, 2012). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201250 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
T Ahrens , A Becker , J Burns , C S Chapman , M Granlund , M Habersam , A Hansen , R Khalifa , T Malmi , A Mennicken , A Mikes , F Panozzo , M Piber , P Quattrone , T Scheytt
The future of interpretative accounting research -a polyphonic debate
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 19 , p. 840 - 866 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Alvesson
Beyond neopositivists, romantics and localists: a reflexive approach to interviews in organizational research
Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 33 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Rapport final sur le comité d'audit, Groupe de travail présidé par Olivier Poupart-Lafarge
Autorité des Marchés Financiers Posted: 2010
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hernason , T L Neal
The audit committee oversight process
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 26 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 121 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,604
RANK
416,133
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies