Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Management Accounting Techniques by Canadian Small and Medium Sized Enterprises: A Field Study

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

39 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2013

Howard M. Armitage

University of Waterloo

Alan Webb

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

Small and medium size enterprises (SME’s) represent a large and important part of the Canadian economy. However, little is known about the extent to which Canadian SME’s utilize contemporary management accounting techniques such as costing systems, budgets, responsibility centre reporting, and analysis for decision-making. We conducted in-depth field interviews at 11 Canadian SME’s to: (1) determine the extent to which widely accepted management accounting techniques and tools are being adopted at SME’s of various sizes and industries and (2) explore the underlying reasons why specific techniques are not being used. We find that of the 19 well-known management accounting techniques addressed in our interviews, only a small proportion are moderately or highly used by the participating companies. Moreover, we find that manufacturing companies in our study are considerably more likely to use certain techniques such as costing systems and responsibility centre reporting. We discuss the implications of our findings for management accounting educators, textbook authors, and developers of professional education programs.

Keywords: management accounting, small and medium size enterprises

JEL Classification: L21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Armitage, Howard M. and Webb, Alan, The Use of Management Accounting Techniques by Canadian Small and Medium Sized Enterprises: A Field Study (January 15, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 , issue 5 , p. 336 - 357 Posted: 2006
Abdel-Kader , R Luther
The impact of firm characteristics on management accounting practices: A UK-based empirical analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , p. 2 - 27 Posted: 2008
P Alleyne , D Weekes-Marshall
An exploratory study of management accounting practices in manufacturing companies in Barbados
International Journal of Business and Social Science , volume 2 , issue 9 , p. 49 - 58 Posted: 2011
R Anthony , V Govindarajan
Management Control Systems, Twelfth Edition Posted: 2007
Load more
3 Citations
Hung Quoc NGUYEN , Oanh Thi Tu LE
Factors Affecting the Intention to Apply Management Accounting in Enterprises in Vietnam
The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 95 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Veena L Brown , Jodi Lynn Gissel , Adam Vitalis
Mandatory Disclosure of Audit Engagement Partners: Insights from Practice
33 Pages · Posted: 1 Sep 2016 · Last revised: 5 Sep 2019 · Downloads: 472
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Diah Agustina Prihastiwi , Mahfud Sholihin
Factors Affecting the Use of Management Accounting Practices in Small and Medium Enterprises: Evidence from Indonesia
Journal Dinamika Akuntansi, 10(2), 158-176 (September 2018) · 19 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 1,156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
818
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,043
RANK
68,972
3 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Influencing Contingencies on Management Accounting Practices in Estonian Manufacturing Companies

By Toomas Haldma and Kertu Laats

Management Accounting Practices in the British Food and Drinks Industry

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

The Impact of Firm Characteristics on Management Accounting Practices: A UK-Based Empirical Analysis

By Magdy G. Abdel-kader and Robert G. Luther

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies