Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distracted from Distraction by Distraction: Reimagining Estate Tax Reform

USC Law and Economics Research Papers Series No. C13-2

USC Legal Studies Research Papers Series No. 13-2

Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2013

16 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2013 Last revised: 20 Feb 2013

Edward J. McCaffery

University of Southern California Gould School of Law

Date Written: January 16, 2013

Abstract

Recent legislation has left a gift and estate tax that will apply to far fewer than 1% of all decedents each year. This Article, prepared for a symposium on Tax Advice for the Second Obama Administration, argues that the estate tax has become largely irrelevant, except ironically as a spur to the creation and perpetuation of dynastic wealth via 'Dynasty Trusts.' The tax no longer meets any compelling policy rationale, such as raising revenue, 'backing up” the income tax, injecting progression into the tax system, or breaking up large concentrations of wealth. It is time to move on, and to meaningfully address the 800lb gorilla in the room – the problem of unrealized appreciation. The de facto demise of the death tax gives policymakers reason to reconsider the 'stepped-up basis' rule of IRC Section 1014 for assets acquired from a decedent. This rule allows those with financial capital to live tax-free and escape all taxation. Its rationale has been linked to the estate tax. Out of the ashes of the estate tax, then, a path for hope arises – lawmakers should consider a capital gains/realization-on-death rule, as Canada has, or a consistent carryover basis regime for all gratuitous transfers, whether on life or at death.

Suggested Citation:

McCaffery, Edward J., Distracted from Distraction by Distraction: Reimagining Estate Tax Reform (January 16, 2013). USC Law and Economics Research Papers Series No. C13-2, USC Legal Studies Research Papers Series No. 13-2, Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 40, No. 5, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Jesse Drucker
Buffett-Ducking Billionaires Avoid Reporting Cash Gains to IRS, BLOOMBERG , volume 9 Posted: 2011-11-20
Crossref
Edward Mccaffery , Oxford , S To U , Law
Further information about Buy, Borrow, and Die can be
RICH DAD/POOR DAD: WHAT THE RICH TEACH THEIR KIDS ABOUT MONEY -THAT THE POOR AND MIDDLE CLASS DO NOT! Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
352,454
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies