Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting and Market Efficiency

CAAA Annual Conference 2013

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2013

Xiaofei Song

Saint Mary's University

Date Written: January 15, 2013

Abstract

This paper analytically examines how market efficiency affects the effectiveness of fair value accounting (FVA). Fair value accounting has been one of the most controversial accounting subjects. The recent global financial crisis highlights the disparity between the views of its supporters who see it as panacea and its critics who consider it a Pandora’s box. The research on FVA, with the mixed findings, also failed to yield a conclusive outcome. In the history of financial reporting FVA has fallen in and out of favor with regulatory bodies several times. It appears that the changes in regulatory position towards FVA tended to occur in the aftermath of a major financial crisis, suggesting that the effectiveness of FVA is affected by the state of market conditions. Using a simple model tracking the performance of a portfolio over a two-period investment cycle under fair value accounting and historical cost accounting (HCA) regimes respectively, this study finds that fair value accounting is more effective when the market efficiency level is high, and vice versa. The findings of this paper suggest a new dimension in future research of FVA and provide a possible reconciliation of the contradicting empirical results of the existing studies.

Keywords: Fair Value Accounting, Market Efficiency

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Song, Xiaofei, Fair Value Accounting and Market Efficiency (January 15, 2013). CAAA Annual Conference 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2201221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,521
RANK
143,068
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies