Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Financial, Macroeconomic and Non-Financial Information in Bank Loan Default Timing Prediction

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2013

Alnoor Bhimani

London School of Economics

Azzim Gulamhussen

Vlerick Business School

Samuel Da-Rocha Lopes

European Central Bank (ECB); Bank of Portugal

Date Written: January 16, 2013

Abstract

We assess the use of bank loan information in predicting the timing to default. We use unique data on defaults in small and medium enterprises maintained by the Central Bank of Portugal which includes financial accounting and macroeconomic indicators, as well as non-financial information. The findings are indicative of the incremental predictive ability of non-financial information over and above macroeconomic and financial accounting information in the baseline, industry, and in- and out-of-sample models. Specifically, total credit secured by firms is, as expected, negatively and significantly related to default. Gross domestic product is negatively and significantly related to default and benchmark market rate is positively and significantly associated with default. The findings also reveal that firms which are operated by partners; which have stronger financial support from partners; and which possess operational assets; exhibit lower hazards of default. The study indicates that non-financial information and macroeconomic indicators assessed alongside financial accounting data can significantly improve the forecasting performance of default models.

Keywords: Financial institutions, Corporate financial distress, Financial accounting information, Bank risk policy and regulation

JEL Classification: G20, G39, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bhimani, Alnoor and Gulamhussen, M. A. and Lopes, Samuel, The Role of Financial, Macroeconomic and Non-Financial Information in Bank Loan Default Timing Prediction (January 16, 2013). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2201843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
A Allen , G Delong , A Saunders
Issues in the credit risk modelling of retail markets
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 727 - 752 Posted: 2004
Crossref
E I Altman , A Saunders
Credit risk measurement: Developments over the last 20 years
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 20 , issue 1 , p. 1721 - 1742 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Ansell , M Phillips
Practical Methods for Reliability Data Analysis Posted: 1994
O Dées , S Zaher , F
Stress-testing euro area corporate default probabilities using a global macroeconomic model
Journal of Financial Stability , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 64 - 78 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,316
RANK
248,130
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Default Risk in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou and Yuhang Xing

News Related to Future GDP Growth as a Risk Factor in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

News Related to Future GDP Growth as Risk Factors in Equity Returns

By Maria Vassalou

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies