Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Case for Global Accounting Standards: Arguments and Evidence

17 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2013

Ann Tarca

University of Western Australia

Date Written: October 22, 2012

Abstract

This paper outlines the arguments for a common set of accounting standards and the forces that have promoted adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Widespread use of IFRS since 2005 provides an opportunity for empirical investigation of the benefits of IFRS. I summarise results of studies that are relevant for assessing the role of IFRS in both developing and developed capital markets.

Keywords: IFRS, cost and benefits, common accounting standards

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tarca, Ann, The Case for Global Accounting Standards: Arguments and Evidence (October 22, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2204889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2204889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
N Albu , C Albu
IFRS in an emerging economy: Lessons from Romania
Australian Accounting Review (forthcoming Posted: 2012-09
K.-H Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: The impact on foreign analysts
Accounting Review Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting incomein four East Asian countries and implications for the acceptance of
IAS Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 Posted: 1968
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
9,343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
20,585
RANK
1,430
16 Citations
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies