Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Proposed Replacement of the Tax Expenditure Concept and a Different Perspective on Accelerated Depreciation

Florida State University Law Review, Forthcoming

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-001

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 303

21 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2013 Last revised: 27 Mar 2013

Douglas A. Kahn

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: January 22, 2013

Abstract

The thesis of this article is that the tax expenditure concept is grounded on an erroneous vision of the structure of an income tax system. The tax expenditure concept adopts a binary view of income taxation. It posits that there is an ideal or pure income tax system whose provisions are elements of the normal structure of that system without any influence from non-tax policy considerations. Tax provisions are described either as falling within those core provisions or outside of them. There are no other categories. To the contrary, this article contends that tax provisions lie on a continuum in which some are in the core and some are at different distances from the core. The author contends that virtually all tax provisions, including those within the core, reflect policy considerations. The decision whether to adopt or retain a provision takes into account both its proximity to the core and also the economic and societal consequences (both positive and negative) that the provision will cause. There is no universal tax system for all times. Tax laws are (and should be) constructed to coordinate with the needs and values of society as they change over time. The article also contends that there is not just one proper method of depreciation, and that accelerated depreciation is as consistent with neutral tax principles as is straight line depreciation.

Keywords: tax, expenditure, budget, depreciation, ACRS, MACRS, accelerated, ideal, neutral

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H24, H25, H29

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Douglas A., A Proposed Replacement of the Tax Expenditure Concept and a Different Perspective on Accelerated Depreciation (January 22, 2013). Florida State University Law Review, Forthcoming, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-001, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 303, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2205288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,754
RANK
422,861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies