Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Income of the 21st Century: Online Advertising as a Case Study for the Implications of Technology for Source-Based Taxation

Originally published in 16 Tul. J. Tech. & Intell. Prop. 39 (2013)

44 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2013 Last revised: 10 Jan 2018

Assaf Prussak

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School - SJD Candidate

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

Throughout history, traditional trade and commerce, whether by land, sea or air, were always performed in a very physical manner, thus subjecting them to constraints and barriers imposed by both natural and man-made borders and jurisdictional lines. The computer and Internet revolutions, however, created a new medium for trade and commerce – the virtual marketplace. This unique platform for engaging in trade and commerce created new opportunities for value and profit generation in novel ways not previously available. One of these Internet-based revenue-generators is online advertising. With growing worldwide accessibility to the Internet, double-digit growth rate, and stronger-than-ever financial reports from the major players in the market (Google, Facebook and the like), online advertising is expected to be a key player in the twenty first century global economy. The unique characteristics of this new type of economic activity challenge the traditional boundaries faced in generating income from cross-border transactions, which for centuries have defined and limited the world of commerce. Online advertising, in contrast, is completely unbound by any physical or jurisdictional borders and it is generated in a multi-party transaction in which the active revenue-generating party (the end-user who views the advertisement or acts upon it) is neither the payee nor the payor. When this type of activity takes place in a multi-jurisdiction context (whether at the international or state level), it gives rise to interesting questions regarding the tax implications of the income it generates. The source of this income, its character, its effect on the U.S. domestic tax system and its impact on the complex web of bilateral tax treaties, are only some of the issues that merit serious discussion. This article will attempt to introduce the reader to the unique characteristics of income from online advertising and present some of the interesting tax implications it creates. .

This paper was selected as the winner of the 2012 International Fiscal Association (USA Branch) Writing Competition.

Keywords: online advertising, source rules, character, cross-jurisdiction, international tax, technology

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Prussak, Assaf, The Income of the 21st Century: Online Advertising as a Case Study for the Implications of Technology for Source-Based Taxation (January 1, 2013). Originally published in 16 Tul. J. Tech. & Intell. Prop. 39 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2206745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2206745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Robert T Mann , Legacy To Power: Senator , Russell Long , Louisiana
Posted: 2003
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
A Perspective on Supra-Nationality in Tax Law
Yariv Brauner and Pasquale Pistone (eds.), Taxation and the BRICS, IBFD 2015, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 425, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-019 Pages: 7 Posted: 14 Oct 2014 Last revised: 30 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Non-resident aliens" refers to individuals who are non-U.S.-residents for federal U.S. tax purposes. For the exact definition see I.R.C. § 7701(b)(a)(B)
I R C
, volume 872
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
738
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,634
RANK
79,099
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies