Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Shareholder Democracy in the Shadow of the Financial Crisis

69 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2013 Last revised: 4 Apr 2013

Alan J. Dignam

Queen Mary University of London - School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

This Article argues that the UK regulatory response to the financial crisis in the form of “stewardship” and shareholder engagement is an error built on a mistaken understanding of the key active role shareholders played in the enormous corporate governance failure that the banking crisis represented. As a result shareholders’ passivity rather than activity has characterized the reform perception of their role. This lead to the conclusion that if only they were more active they would be more responsible “stewards” of the corporation. Unfortunately if activity was part of the problem in the banks as this article would argue, then encouraging increased shareholder action and exporting it outside the banks, as we have subsequently done in the United Kingdom, risks a wider systemic corporate governance failure. In short, we have learned the wrong lesson about shareholders from the banking crisis. Technical solutions may instead lie in removing key problematic agency-cost-reduction measures such as the takeover panel, and allowing a judicial balance to re-emerge in the development of directors’ discretion to manage the company. These solutions will not, however, fix the systemic flaw in a corporate governance system designed around current shareholders with a diminished role for the board of directors, the employees, and the community. A rebalancing is needed, whereby both the board and the state are reinvigorated in terms of their influence on a rematerialized corporation.

Keywords: financial crisis, company law, corporate law, shareholder power, board power, passivity, institutional investors, bank corporate governance, Merton, Jensen, Bainbridge, Blair, Stout, short termism, leverage, stewardship, Kay Review, directors duties, takeover panel, agency cost, Embattled CEOs

Suggested Citation:

Dignam, Alan J., The Future of Shareholder Democracy in the Shadow of the Financial Crisis (August 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2207685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2207685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
Study Group Chaired by Sir Richard Greenbury, 'Directors Remuneration: Report of a Study Group Chaired by Sir Richard Greenbury
Cadbury Report) Report of the Committee on the Financial Aspects of Corporate Governance Posted: 1992-12
Committee on Corporate Governance, Committee on Corporate Governance: Final Report Posted: 1997-01
Crossref
and R. Hampel (1998) Committee on Corporate Goverance
Crossref
K Allen
Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
365
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,830
RANK
61,229
4 Citations
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies