Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Remuneration and Riots: Rethinking Corporate-Governance Reform in the Age of Entitlement

49 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2013

Alan J. Dignam

Queen Mary University of London - School of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2012

Abstract

The question this paper addresses is whether the corporate-governance reforms of the past 30 years have actually made our elite-remuneration problems worse. This article posits that, over time, corporate-governance initiatives have created a regulatory edifice that has neutered executives and distanced shareholders from important internal governance matters, such as remuneration, while at the same time considering disclosure of elite salaries a legitimising tool in itself. In the public sector, the mimicking of private-sector agency-cost-reducing norms and transparency initiatives has had a similar accelerating effect on the salaries of the elite. The price of this edifice in all sectors has been high elite pay, as neutered executives and public servants have sought out remuneration as a proxy for power, prestige and service. In turn, there has been a steady increase in public awareness of and unhappiness about elite remuneration.

The paper concludes that the answer lies in giving executives and public servants back their discretionary power to manage, by removing many agency-cost-reducing initiatives. Real solutions are likely to be found by: ending quarterly financial disclosure; exempting public-sector salaries from Freedom of Information (FOI) requests; ceasing to use performance-related targets; reducing the influence of Non-Executive Directors (NED); increasing the cost of exit for shareholders; allowing boards to use their powers to defend takeovers; utilising average-pay ratios and employee say-on-pay rights; and removing remuneration-disclosure requirements.

Keywords: remuneration, conflicts of interests, shareholder accountability, company law, corporations, financial crisis, shareholders, institutional investors, directors, fiduciary duty, directors duty, conflict licensing, disclosure, transparency, privatisation, corporate governance, non-executive directors

Suggested Citation:

Dignam, Alan J., Remuneration and Riots: Rethinking Corporate-Governance Reform in the Age of Entitlement (August 1, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2207682 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2207682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Diener
, volume 102
Crossref
R Inglehart , Rabier
Aspirations adapt to situations -But why are the Belgians so much happier than the French? A cross-cultural analysis of the subjective quality of life
Research on the Quality of Life Posted: 1986
A Clark , M Frijters , Shields
Relative Income, Happiness, and Utility: An Explanation for the Easterlin Paradox and Other Puzzles
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 46 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Lane
The Loss of Happiness in Market Democracies Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
853
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,068
RANK
65,287
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies