Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Broadening the Tax Base and Its Effect on Fiscal Policy

38 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2013

Steven Goaslind

Washburn University - School of Law

Date Written: December 13, 2012

Abstract

The Tax Reform Act of 1986 signed by President Ronald Reagan, and the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, signed by President George W. Bush are the most significant tax reforms the United States has seen in the past thirty years. While both bills have gained notoriety for “broadening the tax base” by eliminating tax preferences and deductions, neither approach has been clearly proposed as an answer to the current fiscal cliff. Half the political base blames the “Bush tax cuts” for current fiscal deficits because of the massive decrease in tax rates without compensating for lost revenue. The other half admires the “Reagan tax cuts” for broadening the tax base while lowering rates, but do not seem to believe those principles can translate to today’s economy. Indeed, experts do not agree that past, proven principles can help stabilize the current economy.

The current United States debt level and yearly deficit should trigger appropriate tax policies to create greater revenue from the tax code. In this paper, I propose that the primary focus of tax reform should be lowering the budget deficit through increased tax revenue. There are primarily two ways in which the tax code can generate revenue: (1) increase the individual income tax rates, or (2) broaden the tax base by making more income subject to taxation. Broadening the tax base is a more viable option than simply raising individual income tax rates because of the inherent fairness and efficiency that accompanies base broadening. Reform through base broadening eliminates taxpayer’s ability to take deductions and equitably places more taxpayers on the same footing from a taxation perspective. As in the 1980’s, broadening the base will result not only in decreasing the national debt and yearly deficit, but could potentially give a greater number of Americans larger take-home pay.

Both political parties have pandered to interest groups causing tax reform to be arithmetically easy, but almost politically impossible. Tax reform is political by nature because any change to existing policy and legal structures comes from political bodies changing legislation. While the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 dealt with many complex issues such as government spending, corporate tax rates, and gift and estate tax rates, both approaches relied on politics, not arithmetic, nor policy to produce tax reform.

This paper will attempt to compare the two acts while narrowing its analysis on individual income tax rates and the effects broadening the tax base has on fiscal policy. Part I sets out taxation and broadening the base. Part II shows the history and politics of the respective tax reform acts. Part III compares the two reforms of Reagan and Bush. Part IV analyzes the effects prior reforms could have on the current United States economy if implemented today, with a special focus on broadening the tax base. Part V sets out the potential solutions for tax reform with an emphasis on President Obama’s and former 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s tax plans. Ultimately, this paper concludes that broadening the tax base is the best way of addressing, at least in part, the current United States debt.

Keywords: Broaden, base, Reagan, Bush, Obama, Romney, tax, policy

Suggested Citation:

Goaslind, Steven, Broadening the Tax Base and Its Effect on Fiscal Policy (December 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2208792 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2208792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
168 References
* B S
Posted: 2013
Rudolph G Penner
, p. 48 - 56 Posted: 2012
Id
A William , Niskanen &amp; Stephen Moore
Supply-Side Tax Cuts and the Truth about the Reagan Economic Record, The Cato Institute Posted: 1996-10-22
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,987
RANK
381,120
168 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies