Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deciphering Statement of Cash Flows in Malawi

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2013

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: July 2013

Abstract

Users of financial statements heavily rely on the Statement of Cash Flows to gauge a reporting entity’s liquidity to accommodate cash payout as and when obligations fall due. Financial analysts spend considerable effort to decipher hidden clues on how a reporting entity will perform in the near future through adoption of appropriate ratios and trend analysis to assist both current and prospective investors as well as other relevant users of financial statements make well informed decisions.

Reporting entities are motivated to adopt effective cash management strategies if there is evidence that investors and lenders are keen to see satisfactory cash figures. This paper has however noted that listed companies in Malawi are not keen to manage cash effectively principally because most listed companies are attached to particular banks and therefore guaranteed of cash injections. Consequently, listed companies pose significant risks to their investors and the general public as banks expose themselves unnecessarily. The Capital Market Regulators should devise policies regarding cash management to avert probable economic catastrophe.

Keywords: cash, flow, liquidity, cyclical, risk, Malawi

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Deciphering Statement of Cash Flows in Malawi (July 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2209690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2209690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Jasim Al-Ajmi , Hameeda Hussain , Abo
Corporate dividends decisions: evidence from Saudi Arabia
The Journal of Risk Finance , volume 12 , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2011
Crossref
N Bhattacharyya
Dividend policy: a review
Managerial Finance , volume 33 , p. 1 - 4 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Chiza Chiumya
The Parallel Economy in Malawi: Size, Effect on Tax Revenue and Policy Options
Munich Personal RePEc Archive Posted: 2007-08
John Consler , Greg M Lepak , Susan F Havranek
Earnings per share versus cash flow per share as predictor of dividends per share
Managerial Finance , volume 37 , p. 5 - 482 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
487,221
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies