Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement and Financial Economics Valuation

35 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2013

Tamir Agmon

Tel Aviv University, Faculty of Management

Ido Kallir

Ono Academic College

Date Written: September 30, 2012

Abstract

For many years accounting was based on historical data while finance was based on expected future data. This difference creates a gap between accounting and finance regarding issues like the values of assets held by companies and liabilities, including equity, issued by them. IFRS in general and the fair value measurement as introduced by IAS in the last few years brings accounting and finance together. In this study we present, discuss and test a measurement instrument called Value Based balance Sheet (VBB). The VBB rests on three major propositions in accounting and finance; first, the accounting paradigm that describes a firm by its assets and liabilities and defines the identity between them. Second, the finance valuation model that defines the value of a firm as the discounted risk adjusted cash flows to be generated by the firm, and then allocate the actual cash flows over time to different claimants. The third proposition has two parts; in a complete and perfect market the value of the firm is independent of its capital structure, in an incomplete market with monopolistic competition the risk profile of the liabilities should be congruent with the risk profile of the assets. Ex ante Incongruence between the risk profile of the liabilities and the assets will reduce the value of the firm. The VBB focuses on the third proposition, but it also reflects the first two propositions. The VBB differs from other valuation instruments like Economic Value Added (EVA) in looking at both the assets and the liabilities of the firm and the relationships between them. We test the VBB as a way to gain better insights into the development of value over time. We do that by using a unique data set of venture capital backed (VC) young innovative companies in the software industry. The test shows that the VBB is an effective way to trace and better understand the dynamics of the value of these firms.

Keywords: fair value measurement, valuation, capital structure

Suggested Citation:

Agmon, Tamir and Kallir, Ido, Measurement and Financial Economics Valuation (September 30, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2209015 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2209015
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
T Agmon , C Whilborg
A Probabilistic of International Trade Risk: Quantification of International Trade Outcomes Posted: 1989
Crossref
K J Arrow
The Role of Securities in the Optimal Allocation of Risk Bearing
Review of Economic Studies , volume 31 , p. 91 - 96 Posted: 1964
Crossref
M J Brennan , L Trigeorgis
Project Flexibility, Agency, and Competition
New Developments in the Theory and Applications of Real Options Posted: 2000
G Debreu
The Theory of Value Posted: 1959
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,761
RANK
383,022
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies