Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Ownership Structure on Voluntary Corporate Disclosure in Annual Reports: Evidence from Fiji

Accounting & Taxation, v. 5 (1) p. 47-58

12 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2013

Ifraz Khan

University of the South Pacific

Priyashni Vandana Chand

University of the South Pacific

Arvind Patel

University of South Pacific

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The extent of voluntary corporate disclosure by companies in annual reports in recent years has increased due to various factors. A number of prior studies examined the relationship between ownership concentration and voluntary corporate disclosure. Their findings suggest there is less voluntary corporate disclosure in family owned and high shareholder concentrated firms. On the other hand, companies with low shareholder concentration are likely to have more voluntary corporate disclosure because of the principal to agent relationship. Though studies have examined the impact of ownership structure on the extent of voluntary disclosure, there is still a need to investigate the issue in the Pacific Island countries, such as Fiji. The ownership structure of the companies in Fiji is highly concentrated. This paper examines the relationship between ownership structure and the extent of voluntary corporate disclosure in annual reports of listed companies in Fiji. A content analysis approach suggests how the ownership structure affects the extent of voluntary corporate disclosure in Fiji.

Keywords: Ownership Structure, Voluntary Corporate Disclosure

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Khan, Ifraz and Chand, Priyashni Vandana and Patel, Arvind, The Impact of Ownership Structure on Voluntary Corporate Disclosure in Annual Reports: Evidence from Fiji (2013). Accounting & Taxation, v. 5 (1) p. 47-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2210059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,673
RANK
151,526
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies