Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Individual Mandate, Taxation, and the Constitution

Journal Taxation of Investments, p. 31, Fall 2012

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-4

Posted: 4 Feb 2013

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This article examines the Supreme Court’s 2012 decision in National Federation of Business v. Sibelius (NFIB). That case held that the individual mandate penalty in the Obamacare legislation will be a tax and not a penalty, and that the penalty will therefore be constitutional under the Taxing Clause of the Constitution, even though a majority of the Court held that the mandate itself — the requirement to acquire insurance or pay the tax/penalty — was not a valid exercise of the commerce power. The result in the case was not necessarily a surprise, but the reliance on the taxing power was. This article discusses the understanding of the taxing power reflected in NFIB; describes what Chief Justice Roberts did not say about the scope of that power; and considers what the decision means for future exercises of congressional power, concluding that NFIB is unlikely to cause Congress to abuse the taxing power.

Keywords: individual mandate, National Federation of Business v. Sibelius, Affordable Care Act, taxing clause

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., The Individual Mandate, Taxation, and the Constitution (2012). Journal Taxation of Investments, p. 31, Fall 2012, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2210954
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
866
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies