Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenges the Changing Landscape of Banking Poses for Accounting and Financial Reporting

UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper No. 2013-18

34 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2013

Wayne R. Landsman

University of North Carolina Kenan-Flagler Business School

Ken V. Peasnell

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 30, 2012

Abstract

This paper summarizes changes that have taken place in banking, the attendant financial innovations, and the challenges these innovations pose for accounting standard setters and regulators. We focus on asset securitizations and the difficulties in accounting for such transactions, in particular their option-like features, and discuss how such option-like features appear in many financial contracts. We discuss ways that such difficulties can be addressed and conclude that a purely measurement approach is likely to be problematic. This suggests that the FASB’s approach of requiring an increasing amount of supplementary disclosure relating to the risks faced by banks may be the best solution.

Keywords: securitizations, options, credit-linked notes, financial institutions, accounting disclosures

JEL Classification: M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Landsman, Wayne R. and Peasnell, Kenneth V., The Challenges the Changing Landscape of Banking Poses for Accounting and Financial Reporting (November 30, 2012). UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper No. 2013-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212148 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
V V Acharya , Richardson
Restoring Financial Stability: How to Repair a Failed System Posted: 2009
A R Admati , P M Demarzo , M F Hellwig , P Pfleiderer
Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts, and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity Is Not Expensive. Working paper Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Amiram , W R Landsman , K V Peasnell , C Shakespeare
Market Reaction to Securitization Retained Interest Impairments during the Financial Crisis of Posted: 2007
M E Barth , W R Landsman
How did Financial Reporting Contribute to the Financial Crisis?
European Accounting Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 399 - 423 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,954
RANK
312,985
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies