Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disallowing Deductions Paid with Excluded Income

32 Virginia Tax Review, 2013

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 623

12 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2013 Last revised: 1 Mar 2013

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 5, 2013

Abstract

The idea advanced herein, as a thought experiment, is the possibility of expanding (by legislation) – or possibly interpreting (by Treasury regulation) – section 265(a)(1) to disallow deductions deemed to have paid out of tax-exempt (i.e., excluded) income. Although section 265(a)(1) already disallows deductions to obtain tax-exempt income (hereinafter referred to as “forward disallowance”), the Treasury has not seriously attempted to systematically disallow deductions paid with tax-exempt income (hereinafter referred to as “backward disallowance”). The reason for this Treasury inattention is undoubtedly a realization that a tracing rule (that would disallow deductions actually paid with tax-exempt income) would, in most cases, be easily avoidable (because cash is fungible) and only serve to unfairly lay a trap for the unsophisticated. This conundrum could be finessed, however, by disallowing that percentage of otherwise-allowable deductions as excluded income bears to total (included and excluded) income – an approach that respects the fungibility of cash.

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M., Disallowing Deductions Paid with Excluded Income (February 5, 2013). 32 Virginia Tax Review, 2013, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 623, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212328 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212328
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Phase-outs of itemized deductions and deductions for personal and dependency exemptions, see § § 68, 151(d)(3), were (with modifications) restored by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of Posted: 2012
disallowance of a deduction has the effect of increasing the marginal tax rate for income in that range. Income above the phase-out range is not so affected. For a fuller explanation and critique thereof, see Calvin H. Johnson, Simplification: Replace the Personal Exemptions Phaseout Bubble , p. 77 - 1403 Posted: 1997-12-22
Simplification: Replacement of the Section 68 Limitation on Itemized Deductions Posted: 1998-01-05
The museum lobby appears to have quite effective in immunizing itself from attempts to cut back or limit the charitable deduction. See § 170(e), described in note ???, § 170(f) (allowing deduction for donations of undivided interests in property), and § 2503(g) (no estate or gift tax exposure for rent-free loan of artwork to museum)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
478,514
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies