Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Commentary on SARS’ Proposed Fair Value Tax on Financial Instruments

SA Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013

24 Pages Posted: 6 Feb 2013

Phillip de Jager

University of Cape Town - Department of Finance and Tax

Shaun Parsons

University of Cape Town (UCT) - Department of Accounting

Jennifer Roeleveld

University of Cape Town (UCT)

Date Written: January 6, 2013

Abstract

On 5 July 2012 the South African National Treasury released its draft Taxation Laws Amendment Bill, which included the proposed insertion of section 24JB into the Income Tax Act. The proposed section will require all banks, company members of the JSE Securities Exchange (stockbrokers) and hedge funds to include in or deduct from their taxable income amounts in respect of financial assets and financial liabilities (as defined) according to the profit recognized on those instruments in terms of International Financial Reporting Standards. The effect will be to introduce a fair value tax on the financial instruments of those entities, within the scope of the proposed section. This constitutes a significant change from the current approach that is mostly realization based. South Africa is not the first country to consider the introduction of a fair value tax on financial instruments, therefore there is precedent. However, both the timing and the approach of the proposal are possibly problematic.

This paper discusses the theoretical tax and economic implications of this proposal and attempts to identify positive and negative potential outcomes. A number of unanswered questions are raised that should be addressed before such legislation can be effectively introduced in South Africa. Interview evidence obtained from tax forum meetings, as well as the tax department of one of the banks that would fall within the scope of this legislation, is used to augment the interpretation of this proposal The main findings are that the postulated benefits of the change are unlikely to be realized, that the proposed greater reliance on accounting figures can have unintended consequences and that taxpayers within the scope of the proposed section will lose the benefit of capital gains tax on certain items.

Keywords: section 24JB, financial instruments, banks, stockbroker companies, fair value tax

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

de Jager, Phillip and Parsons, Shaun and Roeleveld, Jennifer, A Commentary on SARS’ Proposed Fair Value Tax on Financial Instruments (January 6, 2013). SA Journal of Accounting Research, Vol. 26, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Guide to the taxation of financial arrangements (TOFA) rules. from Australian Taxation Office
Australian Taxation Office Posted: 2011
Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems -revised version Posted: 2011-06
D F Bradford
Fixing capital gains: symmetry, consistency and correctness in the taxation of financial instruments. NBER working paper series Posted: 1996
Crossref
S D Brunson
Elective taxation of risk-based financial instruments: a proposal Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,736
RANK
342,603
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies