Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standing a Little Bit Above the Rest: Establishment Clause Enforcement & Taxpayer Standing after Winn

34 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2013

Mathilda McGee-Tubb

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: January 10, 2012

Abstract

This paper joins the ongoing dialogue about the relationship between the Establishment Clause and Article III, and particularly the Supreme Court’s narrow expansion of standing for such claims. The paper first suggests that the Establishment Clause recognizes both individual rights-based harms as well as a structural restraint, which like other structural constitutional provisions may not result in individualized harm. It then tracks the creation and preservation of limited taxpayer standing that the Court has permitted for the Establishment Clause, including the Court's most recent decision in Arizona Christian School Tuition Org. v. Winn. Finally, after exploring scholarly views on judicial enforcement of the Establishment Clause and considering whether full judicial enforcement of the Establishment Clause is necessary, and if so, whether it would be possible while respecting the boundaries of Article III, the paper concludes with some reflections on the future of taxpayer standing.

Suggested Citation:

McGee-Tubb, Mathilda, Standing a Little Bit Above the Rest: Establishment Clause Enforcement & Taxpayer Standing after Winn (January 10, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2212886 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2212886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
See Flast, 392 U.S. at
Crossref
Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300 U.S , volume 227 Posted: 1937
Crossref
However, what constitutes standing varies by the type and nature of the claim, and the Court itself has noted that the doctrine is inconsistent. See Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State , volume 464 , p. 475 - 76 Posted: 1982
The standing requirement thus fosters judicial efficiency and preserves separation of powers by ensuring that only real controversies between adverse parties , volume 727 , p. 61 - 63 Posted: 1972
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,154
RANK
889,370
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies