Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic and Legal Arguments in PPL v. Commissioner

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-5

15 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2013

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: February 6, 2013

Abstract

In late February 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear oral argument in PPL Corp. v. Commissioner. The Court took that case, which involves a claim by a U.S. corporation for foreign tax credits for taxes paid in accordance with the 1997 U.K. Windfall Profit Tax Act, in order to resolve a conflict between the Third Circuit, which denied the credit in PPL, and the Fifth Circuit, which allowed the credit in Entergy Corp. v. Commissioner. Nominally, the U.K. Act imposed a tax on recently privatized regulated companies of 23 percent of the difference between their estimated market value and the price at which they were sold to the public. The Act calculated each company’s market value by multiplying average earnings over a period of up to four years by 9 (a multiplier described as a conservative estimate of the market capitalization rate for such companies). The Fifth Circuit allowed the credit on the grounds that the substance of the tax imposed by the Act is a tax on the four prior years’ earnings, albeit at an effective rate higher than the statutory rate. In contrast, the Third Circuit denied the credit on the ground that the Act imposed a tax on a difference in values, not on income, as required by the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulation for the foreign tax to be creditable. This essay examines the economic and legal arguments that have been raised in PPL.

Keywords: UK Windfall Profit Tax Act of 1997, foreign tax credits, privatization of British utilities, corporate valuation, historical earnings vs. expected value of earnings, creditable tax

JEL Classification: G32, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., Economic and Legal Arguments in PPL v. Commissioner (February 6, 2013). U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2214009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2214009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
As the government acknowledges, such a valuation method is a familiar practice under U.S. law. Respondent's brief , p. 20 - 21
The windfall tax was not imposed on the basis of gross receipts. Although gross receipts were used to compute a company's average annual profits, which was one variable in the windfall-tax formula, the windfall tax was not imposed on the basis of those receipts. The receipts figured into a larger formula that produced a company value divorced from the concept of gross receipts
Brief for , p. 13 - 14
Treas. Reg. Sec , volume 1 , issue b , p. 901 - 903
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,038
RANK
427,404
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies