Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of IFRS Adoption on Key Financial Ratios: Comparison of Selected European Countries

International Conference on Business Excellence, Brasov 2012

7 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2013

Dana Kubickova

University of Finance and Administration

Irena Jindrichovska

Anglo-American University Prague

Date Written: July 18, 2012

Abstract

Abstract: This paper analyses the impact of new IFRS reporting rules on financial ratios in comparison with local accounting standards in selected European countries. The article is based mainly on comparison of relevant studies characterizing this subject in different countries. The selection of the countries is as follows: Turkey, Finland, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Norway and the Czech Republic. Following the performance of this comparison, we have learned that the research in different countries on Europe comes to different results and the impact of IFRS is not homogeneous which is understandable due to different countries background.

The second goal of this study is to provide a wider background to our comparative study concentrating on the Czech Republic (Jindrichovska and Kubickova, 2012), which originally started as a conference paper where we used a sample of 18 Czech firms. We attempted to measure the scope and size of the differences in selected set of financial ratios calculated with data reported according to the traditional Czech accounting rules (CAS) and under the IFRS provisions. The Czech research study came to a conclusion, that translation of Czech statements to IFRS did not cause significant changes in the value of financial indicators. One needs to be cautious with generalization due to the small sample size. New methods and approaches identified in this study should be used to enrich the explanatory power of the Czech study.

Keywords: financial statements, financial ratios, IFRS, international comparison, Czech accounting

JEL Classification: M41, M40, M14

Suggested Citation:

Kubickova, Dana and Jindrichovska, Irena, Impact of IFRS Adoption on Key Financial Ratios: Comparison of Selected European Countries (July 18, 2012). International Conference on Business Excellence, Brasov 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2214801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
the different method of investigation and different approach to used analysis. In extension of our study on the Czech Republic we want to use the standpoint of fund providers -capital markets and lenders and potential impact of this change on rating of Czech companies, Acknoledgements: This article was prepared as one of the results of the research project No 7725 "Management of the receivables" carried out under the internal grant agency of University of Finance and Administration
First Time Application of IFRs and Its Impact on Financial Ratios: A Study on Turkish Listed Firms , volume 5 , p. 99 - 112 Posted: 2007
Jeno Beke
International Accounting Standards Effects on Business Management
Business Management and Strategy , volume 2 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Gyorgy Csebfalvi
The Effects of International Accounting Standardization on Business Performance: Evidence from Hungary
International Journal of Business , volume 7 , issue 9 , p. 20 - 27 Posted: 2012-05
Crossref
M Hung , K R Subramanyam
Financial statement effects of adopting international accounting standards: the case of Germany
Review of Accounting Studies , issue 12 , p. 623 - 657 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
768
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,885
RANK
75,106
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Development of Financial and Management Accounting After the IFRS Adoption: A Case from the Czech Republic

By David Anthony Procházka

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies