Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Misleading Signals from Operating Cash Flow in the Presence of Non-Controlling Interests

Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 7, No. 2, 2012

20 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2013

Charles W. Mulford

Georgia Institute of Technology - Accounting Area

Maital Dar

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: February 11, 2013

Abstract

A non-controlling interest, also known as a minority interest, exists when a subsidiary is not wholly owned by the parent company. While a careful designation of income and equity attributable to non-controlling interests is made on the income statement and balance sheet respectively, under GAAP a similar attribution is not made on the statement of cash flows. As such, investors, analysts and other users of financial statements may be unaware that operating cash flow includes amounts attributable to both controlling and non-controlling interests, potentially leading to over-estimates of cash available for dividends to controlling interests.

In this study, for a sample of firms with significant non-controlling interests, we examine the amount and placement of distributions to non-controlling interests on the statement of cash flows. We find that while distribution amounts are significant, averaging 79.2% of income attributable to non-controlling interests, there is no reporting consistency for the distributions being made. In some instances, distributions are not even disclosed on the statement of cash flows. Recommendations for change to the reporting of distributions to non-controlling interests on the statement of cash flows are made to make their placement more consistent with the manner in which non- controlling interest in income is presently reported on the income statement.

Keywords: non-controlling interest, GAAP, cash flow, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Mulford, Charles W. and Dar, Maital, Misleading Signals from Operating Cash Flow in the Presence of Non-Controlling Interests (February 11, 2013). Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF), Vol. 7, No. 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2215385 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2215385
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Eugene E Comiskey , Charles W Mulford
The NonDesignation of Derivatives as Hedges for Accounting Purposes
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 3 - 16 Posted: 2008
O&apos; Vincent , Katie Connell , Sullivan
The Impact of Mandatory Conversion to IFRS on the Net Income of FTSEurofirst 80 Firms
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 17 - 26 Posted: 2008
Guy Ford
Compensation Structure and Portfolio Selection in a Banking Firm
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 42 Posted: 2008
Wayne Lonergan
Pre and Post Tax Discount Rates and Cash Flows -a Technical Note
Journal of Applied Research in Accounting and Finance (JARAF) , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 45 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,520
RANK
119,199
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies