Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Somebody's Watching Me: FCPA Monitorships and How They Can Work Better

13 U. Pa. J. Bus. L. 321 (2011)

61 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2013

F. Warin

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP

Michael Diamant

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP

Veronica Root Martinez

Duke University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 1, 2011

Abstract

Few penalties imposed on a corporate criminal offender cause as much consternation as do compliance monitors. Fundamentally, the corporate compliance monitor stands in the way of forgetting the past and going back to “business as usual” — at least when it comes to obeying the law. The monitor’s purpose is to see that the company follows applicable laws and regulations going forward and institutes the proper policies and procedures to help ensure compliance. Corporations will never welcome this “tail” to their criminal prosecutions.

This article explores the rise of the corporate compliance monitor as a condition for settling violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) — a setting in which federal prosecutors routinely impose monitors. If U.S. enforcement authorities maintain their current approach, the reality is that companies facing liability for violating the FCPA are likely to have a monitor imposed on them as part of a settlement agreement. From the U.S. government’s perspective, monitorships make sense for companies that violate anti-bribery laws, making it important for offending corporations to learn how to deal with monitors. Pulling from the authors’ extensive experience with three major FCPA compliance monitorships, as well as their work assisting clients operating under an FCPA monitorship, this article aids in that process. It also hopes to help monitors themselves, as well as the prosecutors who appoint them, in making the monitorship a more constructive feature of an FCPA settlement.

Keywords: FCPA, Monitor

Suggested Citation:

Warin, F. and Diamant, Michael and Martinez, Veronica Root, Somebody's Watching Me: FCPA Monitorships and How They Can Work Better (June 1, 2011). 13 U. Pa. J. Bus. L. 321 (2011), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2215056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Conversely, in the event the Department finds, in its sole discretion, that there exists a change in circumstances sufficient to eliminate the need for the Monitor, the term of the Agreement may be terminated early
See Willbros Deferred Prosecution Agreement, supra note 105
See Kellogg Brown & Root Plea Agreement, supra note 138, at Exhibit 2 at 6 ("[T]he Monitor may apply to the Department for permission to forego the second follow-up review
D Minn
Conversely, in the event the Department finds, in its sole discretion , p. 8 - 00172 Posted: 2008-06-03
Judgment Siemens Final
Monitor may apply to the Commission staff for permission to forego the third follow-up review
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,930
RANK
481,321
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies