Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing State Governments under a Federal Value Added Tax: Part 1

State Tax Notes, Vol. 64, No. 6, 2012

8 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2013

Alan D. Viard

American Enterprise Institute

Date Written: May 14, 2012

Abstract

The federal government confronts a long-run fiscal imbalance arising from the rapid projected growth of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security spending compared with revenue. The enactment of a value added tax is often mentioned as a possible solution to this imbalance. This article is the first part of a two-part examination of the contentious issue of how state governments' provision of goods and services to the public should be taxed under a VAT.

In this article, I focus on the case in which the state government's output takes the form of consumption rather than inputs into private production. I also assume in this article that state taxes do not affect private production. The second article in this series will generalize the analysis to consider state governments' provision of production inputs and the interaction of a federal VAT with state taxes.

Suggested Citation:

Viard, Alan D., Taxing State Governments under a Federal Value Added Tax: Part 1 (May 14, 2012). State Tax Notes, Vol. 64, No. 6, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2217947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Bruce Bartlett
Why the FairTax Won't Work,'' Tax Notes Posted: 2007-12-24
Michael J Graetz
100 Million Unnecessary Returns: A Simple, Fair, and Competitive Tax Plan for the United States , volume 16 , p. 187 - 188 Posted: 2008
Hank Adler
FairTax -Not Ready for Prime Time
Tax Notes Posted: 2008-01-14
Bartlett
, p. 1247 - 1248
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
863
RANK
759,919
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies