Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Company Law: A Case-Based Approach

Hart Publishing, 2013

26 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2013

Mathias Siems

European University Institute (EUI); University of Cambridge - Centre for Business Research

David Cabrelli

University of Edinburgh - School of Law

Date Written: February 14, 2013

Abstract

As attention moves rapidly towards comparative approaches, the research and teaching of company law has somehow lagged behind. The overall purpose of this book is therefore to fill a gap in the literature by identifying whether conceptual differences between countries exist. Rather than concentrate on whether the institutional structure of the corporation varies across jurisdictions, the objective of this book will be pursued by focusing on specific cases and how different countries might treat each of these cases. The book also has a public policy dimension, because the existence or absence of differences may lead to the question of whether formal harmonisation of company law is necessary.

The book covers 10 legal systems. With respect to countries of the European Union, it focuses on the most populous countries (Germany, France, the UK, Spain, Italy and Poland) as well as two smaller Member States (Finland and Latvia). In addition, the laws of two of the world's largest economies (the US and Japan) are included for the purposes of wider comparison. All of these jurisdictions are subjected to scrutiny by deploying a comparative case-based study. On the basis of these case solutions, various conclusions are reached, some of which challenge established orthodoxies in the field of comparative company law.

The SSRN document includes the Table of Contents and the first chapter of the book.

Keywords: company law, comparative law, comparative corporate governance, convergence, legal transplants, legal origins

JEL Classification: G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Siems, Mathias and Cabrelli, David Louis, Comparative Company Law: A Case-Based Approach (February 14, 2013). Hart Publishing, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2217483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2217483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
L A Bebchuk , Hamdani
Vigorous Race or Leisurely Walk: Reconsidering the Competition Over Corporate Charters
Yale Law Journal , volume 112 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Delaware Journal of Corporate Law , volume 885
Crossref
Jh Barton , V H Lowell Gibbs , J H Li , Merryman
Law in Radically Different Cultures Posted: 1983
M Warrington , Van Hoecke
Legal Cultures, Legal Paradigms and Legal Doctrine: Towards a New Model for Comparative Law' (1998) 47 International and Comparative Law Quarterly 495, 533; NJ Smelser
ly Comparative Methods in the Social Sciences Posted: 1976
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
859
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,749
RANK
64,657
4 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies