Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Railroad Taxes, Discrimination, and the 4-R Act: A Misstep by the Eighth Circuit

State Tax Notes, Vol. 63, No. 2, 2012

5 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2013

Alan D. Viard

American Enterprise Institute

Date Written: January 9, 2012

Abstract

On October 14, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit decided Midwest Railcar Repair v. South Dakota Department of Revenue and Regulation, with a divided three-judge panel rejecting a claim that South Dakota's imposition of sales and use tax on railroad car repairs violated the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act (the 4-R Act).1 In this article, I will show that the court's rationale for its decision contradicts basic principles of public finance economics.

Suggested Citation:

Viard, Alan D., Railroad Taxes, Discrimination, and the 4-R Act: A Misstep by the Eighth Circuit (January 9, 2012). State Tax Notes, Vol. 63, No. 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2217948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies