Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Processual Approach towards Studying Management Accounting Change

Journal of Accounting – Business & Management, Vol. 19, No. 2 (2012) 44-58

16 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2013

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Ahmad Nasseri

University of Sistan and Baluchestan; Accounting Department

Mohammed Moradi

University of Sistan & Baluchestan

Date Written: February 14, 2013

Abstract

The issue of organizational change has assumed central importance in business and management – related research during the last two decades. Management accounting is no exception. Change in management accounting systems and techniques, the roles of accountants in business and, more generally, change in the shape of the finance function have particularly been the subjects of much debate in recent decades. This paper reviews two prominent approaches to change namely planned and processual approaches and concludes that a ‘processual’ approach provides a richer and more enhanced understandings of management accounting change.

Keywords: change, management accounting, processual approach

Suggested Citation:

Yazdifar, Hassan and Askarany, Davood and Nasseri, Ahmad and Moradi, Mohammed, A Processual Approach towards Studying Management Accounting Change (February 14, 2013). Journal of Accounting – Business & Management, Vol. 19, No. 2 (2012) 44-58, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2218044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
Abdul Khalid , S N
An Institutionalist Study of Resistance to Management Accounting Change
Manchester School of Accounting and Finance Posted: 2000
B Adam
Timewatch: The Social Analysis of Time
Strategies for Cultural Change Posted: 1994
J Baxter , W F Chua
Alternative Management Accounting ResearchWhence and Whither , volume 28 , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2003
Crossref
G Benjamin , C Mabey
Facilitating Radical Change
Managing Change, 2 nd Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
588
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,678
RANK
105,927
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies