Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Innocent Spouse Relief Says about Wives and the Rest of Us

Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, Vol. 37, No. 1, 2014

44 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2013 Last revised: 30 Mar 2014

Stephanie Hunter McMahon

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Date Written: February 17, 2013

Abstract

Every time spouses sign joint returns, knowingly or not they accept joint and several liability, meaning that either spouse may be held liable for all of the tax due on the joint return. Although joint and several liability facilitates tax collection, it may conflict with a spouse’s claims to have signed the return while being lied to, abused, or manipulated. The question for Congress is how to balance these competing demands. Innocent spouse relief provides some tax relief for spouses Congress does not believe should be jointly and severally liable. The existence of this relief also offers an opportunity to explore how the government views married women, as wives have always composed the lion’s share of seekers and recipients of innocent spouse relief. The relief currently provided is both over- and under-inclusive by (1) not offering relief to all spouses or former spouses who are unable to assess the validity of their returns and (2) offering relief to some who both knew of, and helped orchestrate, tax evasion. This Article argues that the existing innocent spouse relief regime should be replaced with one that respects joint filers’ agency when signing joint returns and affords relief only when a joint filer was unable to exercise that agency. In the event that a spouse is coerced into signing the return, relief needs to be speedier and less burdensome in application than under today’s law. This approach would increase the equity of the tax system and reduce the administrative costs on both the taxpayer and the government.

Keywords: tax, women, innocent spouse relief, joint return

Suggested Citation:

McMahon, Stephanie Hunter, What Innocent Spouse Relief Says about Wives and the Rest of Us (February 17, 2013). Harvard Journal of Law and Gender, Vol. 37, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2219987 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2219987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Heather M Field
Tax Elections and Private Bargaining, 31 VA. TAX REV , volume 1 Posted: 2011
Alafair S See Generally , Burke
Domestic Violence as a Crime of Pattern and Intent: An Alternative Reconceptualization Posted: 2007
Lisa Marie De Sanctis
Bridging the Gap Between the Rules of Evidence and Justice for Victims of Domestic Violence Posted: 1996
Debra S Kalmuss , A Murray , Straus
Wife's Marital Dependency and Wife Abuse
44 J. MARRIAGE & FAM , volume 277 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,705
RANK
337,844
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies