Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Host City Contract as a Basis for Tax Exemption for Major Sporting Events: Towards Privatization of Sports Tax Law?

6 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2013

Karolina Tetlak

University of Warsaw

Date Written: September 17, 2012

Abstract

This article describes the procedure for concluding host city contracts, assesses the existing role of international sports organizations as rule-makers, and asks whether the commitment to offer sports mega-events a tax immunity amounts to the privatization of tax law. Two important intertwined aspects of such commitment include its public law nature, resulting from an agreement based on private law, and a potential violation of the principle of separation of powers with respect to the competence to enact tax law.

Keywords: host city contract, olympic games, taxation, income tax, olympics

Suggested Citation:

Tetlak, Karolina, Host City Contract as a Basis for Tax Exemption for Major Sporting Events: Towards Privatization of Sports Tax Law? (September 17, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2219974 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2219974
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
568,179
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies