Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protecting Auditor Independence by Means of Company Law: The Case of the Companies Code of Ghana

Developing Country Studies, Vol.3, No.2, 2013

11 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2013 Last revised: 3 Mar 2013

Kofi Osei-Afoakwa

University of Mines and Technology

Date Written: February 20, 2013

Abstract

A content analysis of the Companies Code (Act 179 of 1963) of Ghana has been used to determine the extent to which company law in Ghana protects the auditor’s independence. It was determined that the present law, the Companies Code, does not make adequate provision to protect Auditor independence in Ghana. The practical implication of this finding is that the law relating to company audits in Ghana requires an update to strengthen the auditor’s independence in Ghana. The value of this paper lies in its contribution to the debate on auditor independence and how it can be improved under a reviewed Companies code of Ghana.

Keywords: audit, audit independence, agency problem, Peer Review, Auditor Rotation

Suggested Citation:

Osei-Afoakwa, Kofi, Protecting Auditor Independence by Means of Company Law: The Case of the Companies Code of Ghana (February 20, 2013). Developing Country Studies, Vol.3, No.2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2221397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A R Abdel-Khalik
Reforming corporate governance post Enron: shareholders' board of trustees and the auditor
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 21 , p. 97 - 103 Posted: 2002
Crossref
B Arrunada , C Paz-Ares
Mandatory Rotation of Company Auditors: A Critical Examination
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 17 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R C Baker
The Varying Concept of Auditor Independence: Shifting with the Prevailing Environment. The CPA Journal Online Posted: 2005-01-15
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Auditor changes and tendering
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 72 - 98 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,940
RANK
219,770
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies