Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Temporary' Tax Provisions and Uncertainty: Evidence from a Survey of Professional Tax Preparers

The ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research: 11(2), 53-67, 2013

20 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2013 Last revised: 26 Aug 2014

Mark Jackson

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Sonja Pippin

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: February 20, 2013

Abstract

We conduct a comprehensive survey that asks CPAs and other tax professionals to describe their opinions about the continuance of "temporary" provisions in the tax code. Our objective is to see if the multiple extensions of many of these temporary provisions have led CPAs to conclude that these provisions are permanent, and if their opinion on these provisions affects advice they give their clients. We find that professionals on average believe that many provisions will be temporarily extended, but few made permanent. This finding is the same before and after the election date (November 6 2012).

Keywords: tax, uncertainty, temporary provisions, fiscal cliff

JEL Classification: D80, H20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Mark and Pippin, Sonja, 'Temporary' Tax Provisions and Uncertainty: Evidence from a Survey of Professional Tax Preparers (February 20, 2013). The ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research: 11(2), 53-67, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2221666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2221666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
753
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies