Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Simplification Proposals

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 626

53 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2013

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 22, 2013

Abstract

This paper proposes various moves for simplification of the task of computing the tax base under the individual income tax, with a principal view of making the income tax capable of compliance by “ordinary” individuals without the aid of tax preparation software or outside assistance. Another aim of simplification is to render taxpayers’ perception of it as being internally coherent, and not as a Christmas tree showering an array of goodies (and baddies) to the highest (and lowest) bidders. Simplification is offered here as a “good government” project.

Some of the proposals are tied to commonly-circulated “tax reform” proposals, and others are not. The proposals are too numerous to list in this abstract, but include the following: (1) simplifying the computation of taxable income, (2) reconstituting low-income tax credits, (3) eliminating various personal deductions while also eliminating various back-handed itemized deduction cut-down rules, (4) adding various rules for the purpose of eliminating fact-intensive controversies, (5) simplifying accounting for residence-related income production (mainly by eliminating depreciation), (6) eliminating spurious COD income, (7) eliminating the distinction between alimony and child support, (8) simplifying (cash) accounting for small business, (9) mandating GAAP accounting for C corporations, (10) simplifying the income taxation of certain estates, (11) treating all inter vivos trusts as grantor trusts, (12) proposing a portfolio approach to publicly traded investments, (13) proposing a single-rate system for all individual taxpayers, (14) noting various ways of simplifying the capital gains apparatus, (15) taxing all personal injury recoveries, (16) simplifying and rationalizing the law relating to deferred compensation, (17) requiring pass-through taxation of nonpublic business entities, (18) disallowing the interest deduction for C corporations, (19) repealing the E & P apparatus, and (20) eliminating § 911, as well as proposing numerous items of a more technical nature.

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M., Income Tax Simplification Proposals (February 22, 2013). FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 626, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2222879 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2222879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
where the wage replacement rate provided by Social Security ranges from about 55% for low-wage earners through about 25% for workers slightly above the median (with further declines as final pay increases). See Langbein et al., note ???, at 38-39. The Social Security retirement income program (which is not really contingent on retirement as such) is part of the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) federal program. To be eligible, a person must contribute to the program for a specified period. Contributions are withheld by employers for employees. See § § 3101, 3111. Self-employed persons contribute by way of the self-employment tax. See § § 1401-1403
Under current demographic assumptions, the Social Security program is (if unchanged) expected to run a large deficit in the future, and (in any event) benefits are estimated to represent a lower rate of return on contributions than would be the case with privately-funded plans. See Langbein et al., note ??? , p. 41 - 43
See § § , volume 401 , issue 1
Crossref
Basically, the legal mandate is that an employer adopting a plan can exclude only part-time employees, employees under the age of 21, or employees with less than one year of service. See 29 U.S.C. § 1052. The same rule appears
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,580
RANK
394,952
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies