Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meeting the Corporate Reporting Needs of Government and Society

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013‐02

34 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2013

David J. Cooper

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Wayne Morgan

Independent

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

We review some of the ways in which corporate reporting might be more useful for the government’s management of the macro economy and for society’s needs for more comprehensive reporting of corporate social and environmental performance. We highlight the constitutive as well as the representational nature of corporate reporting and how accounting subtlety impacts the culture and focus of governments, societies and corporations. Prominent examples are the ways accounting encourages financialisation and fails to account for externalities and the environment. While many proposals for the reform of corporate reporting emphasis standards and rules, we suggest that a more deliberative approach has much to commend it. A move to deliberation, however, requires that accountants highlight the pervasive but often subtle impacts of accounting.

Keywords: crisis, stability, financialization, corporate reporting, sustainability accounting, integrated reporting, social audit, deliberation

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, David J. and Morgan, Wayne, Meeting the Corporate Reporting Needs of Government and Society (January 1, 2013). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013‐02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2222809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2222809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
E Amir , Lev , B
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 22 , issue 1-3 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Andersson , E Lee , G Theodosopoulos , Y P Yin , C Haslam
Accounting for the financialized UK and US national business model
Critical perpsectives on accounting
Crossref
N Antheaume
Full cost accounting: Adam Smith meets Rachel Carson
2007. Sustainability accounting and accountability , p. 211 - 225 Posted: 2007
P J Arnold
Global financial crisis: The challenge to accounting research. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 34 , p. 803 - 809 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
432,122
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies