Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Popularizing a Management Accounting Idea: The Case of the Balanced Scorecard

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-03

46 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2013

David J. Cooper

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Mahmoud Ezzamel

Cardiff Business School - Accounting and Finance Section

Sandy Qu

York University - Schulich School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

We explore how the Balanced Scorecard (BSC), as a management accounting technique, emerged in local experiments and was developed and marketed as a general management practice. Drawing on actor network theory (ANT) the paper offers an analytical history of the BSC, emphasizing how its various features were translated and transformed, that is shaped and solidified, through repeated experimentation that entailed various innovations, theorizations, modifications, labelling, and specification of abstract categories and cause-effect relations, into its recent forms. The paper also examines the networks and associations that not only shape the form of the BSC but also mobilize the interests of various constituencies around it as a global management technology. We highlight the strategies that Kaplan and Norton used to maintain control of this technique through its continuous reinvention.

Keywords: balanced scorecard, strategic performance measures, history, translation, obligatory passage point, diffusion

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, David J. and Ezzamel, Mahmoud and Qu, Sandy Q., Popularizing a Management Accounting Idea: The Case of the Balanced Scorecard (June 1, 2012). University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2222813 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2222813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
E Abrahamson
Managerial fads and fashions: the diffusion and rejection of innovations
Academy of Management Review , volume 16 , p. 586 - 612 Posted: 1991
Crossref
E Abrahamson
Management fashion
Academy of Management Review , volume 21 , p. 254 - 285 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Akrich , M Callon , B Latour
The key to success in innovation-part II: the art of choosing good spokespersons
International Journal of Innovation Management , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Alcouffe , N Berland , Y Levant
Actor-networks and the diffusion of management accounting innovations: A comparative study
Management Accounting Research , volume 19 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,891
RANK
13,148
10 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Popularizing a Management Accounting Idea: The Case of the Balanced Scorecard

By David J. Cooper, Mahmoud Ezzamel, ...

The Interplay of Core and Peripheral Actors in the Trajectory of an Accounting Innovation: Insights From Beyond Budgeting

By Sebastian D. Becker, Martin Messner, ...

Sequential Sampling Models of Choice: Some Recent Advances

By Thomas Otter, Joe Johnson, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies