Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Big Picture -- 2012

Tax Notes International, Volumes 66-68, 2012

13 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2013

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

This document contains four installments of "The Big Picture," a column published in Tax Analysts, International Tax Notes, Volumes 66-68 (2012). The first installment, "Putting Arbitration on the MAP: Thoughts on the New U.N. Model Tax Convention," discusses the addition of mandatory arbitration to the UN Model Tax Treaty and argues that what is contemplated is not really arbitration as such but more in the nature of expert determination, and that the provisions exact high costs, especially on developing countries (which should be wary about signing tax treaties with rich countries in any event).

The second, "Do We Need to Know More About Our Public Companies?" discusses the problem of public opacity in the global tax dealings of multinationals, introduces readers to the corporate tax transparency provisions enacted in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act of 2010, and argues that publicity of high-profile tax dodging and offshore cash-hoarding makes the case for greater public accountability by multinationals.

The third, "Could a Same-Country Exception Help Focus FATCA and FBAR?" discusses the recent US crackdown on offshore tax evasion, and introduces readers to the likely inadvertent application of this regime to millions of dual-citizens who live and work overseas and thus have bank accounts overseas as well. It proposes a move toward the global standard of residence-based taxation, incrementally if necessary, to ensure the FATCA and FBAR target hits the intended mark.

The fourth and final instalment of 2012, "Measuring a Fair Share," discusses what politicians mean and what they overlook when they say that taxpayers ought to "pay a fair share"; it argues that in failing to adequately define who ought to be considered a taxpayer and what ought to be considered their available resources, governments have essentially constructed an arbitrary and ultimately unjust parameter around the discussion of what fairness means in taxation.

Keywords: taxation, tax policy, international tax, arbitration, mutual agreement, treaties, developing countries, multinationals, disclosure, transparency, EITI, corporate tax, dodd-frank, FATCA, FBAR, tax evasion, fairness, equity, tax justice, citizenship, residence

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H87, F02, F5, F53, F59, Z13, E63, H2, K33, K34, N4, P45

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, The Big Picture -- 2012 (October 1, 2012). Tax Notes International, Volumes 66-68, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2222055
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,147
RANK
331,643
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies