Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Model for Measuring the Expected Value of Assuming Tax-Partnership Liability

7 Brook. J. Corp. Fin. & Com. L. 361 (2013)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 329

65 Pages Posted: 27 Feb 2013 Last revised: 19 Jul 2013

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Joseph Binder

Independent

Ethan Blinder

Independent

Louis Incatasciato

Independent

Date Written: July 19, 2013

Abstract

To a very large extent, tax law drives the choice property and business owners make regarding the entity they use for ownership and operation of their enterprises. At an ever-increasing rate, property and business owners choose to operate their enterprises with entities that are subject to partnership taxation (i.e., limited liability companies, limited partnerships, and limited liability partnerships). Once in the realm of partnership taxation, those same parties face numerous decisions that require them to balance tax, state-law, and other economic considerations. This Article presents a situation in which members of tax partnerships would have to balance those considerations to make an informed decision. The Article illustrates that the use of expected cost estimates can help a member of a tax partnership decide whether taking a current flow-through deduction from the tax partnership warrants the member assuming a larger share of the tax partnership’s liability. In presenting the model that can assist with such a decision, the Article opens the possibility of analyzing other vexing decisions that the confluence of partnership taxation and state law presents to members of tax partnerships. Although such decisions are often vexing, the Article illustrates that finding the proper tools to assist with the decision-making process enhances the value of forming an entity that qualifies for partnership taxation.

Keywords: section 704(d), basis loss limitation, outside basis loss limitation, expected value, section 752, share of partnership liabilities, tax partnership, limited liability entity

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Binder, Joseph and Blinder, Ethan and Incatasciato, Louis, A Model for Measuring the Expected Value of Assuming Tax-Partnership Liability (July 19, 2013). 7 Brook. J. Corp. Fin. & Com. L. 361 (2013), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 329, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2224009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , p. 752 - 754
Crossref
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , p. 752 - 754
Crossref
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , p. 752 - 754
Crossref
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue b , p. 752 - 754
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,152
RANK
340,955
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies