Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Downstream Loan Guarantees and Subsection 247(7.1) Transfer Pricing Relief

CCH Tax Topics, No. 2166 (September 12, 2013)

8 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2013

Geoffrey S. Turner

Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

When a Canadian parent corporation guarantees a debt obligation incurred by its foreign affiliate subsidiary, the issue arises whether the Canadian transfer pricing rules require the Canadian parent to receive an arm's length guarantee fee from the foreign affiliate. Proposed subsection 247(7.1) of the Income Tax Act (Canada) will create a safe harbour avoiding the need for a guarantee fee, but only if the foreign affiliate uses the borrowed funds in the prescribed "active business" manner. This relief is helpful but from a policy perspective arguably too narrow. The author examines recent positions of the Canada Revenue Agency in assessing arm's length guarantee fees in upstream guarantee situations, particularly in the series of General Electric cases. Based on CRA's positions and the questionable rationale for the restrictions on transfer pricing relief in proposed subsection 247(7.1), the author concludes that the CRA should not be assessing transfer pricing penalties, or requiring an arm's length guarantee fee, where a Canadian parent corporation provides a downstream guarantee of a debt obligation of its foreign affiliate subsidiary, even where the affiliate's use of the borrowed funds is outside the safe harbour of proposed subsection 247(7.1).

Keywords: transfer pricing, guarantee fee, subsection 247(7.1), foreign affiliates

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Turner, Geoffrey S., Downstream Loan Guarantees and Subsection 247(7.1) Transfer Pricing Relief (June 1, 2013). CCH Tax Topics, No. 2166 (September 12, 2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2225280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
425,064
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies