Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Still on the Repayment of 'Indirect' Taxes

38 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2013

Hugo Machado Segundo

Federal University of Ceara

Date Written: March 1, 2013

Abstract

The repayment of indirect taxes raises questions in many parts of the world, mainly because of the so called “passing-on defense”. Brazilian Courts has given inadequate treatment to this subject, which, in fact, denies the judicial review of the tax relationship, violating the idea of rule of law. European Court of Justice has different concerns when examining the matter, recognizing that the shift of the tax burden is very difficult to determine and measure. It happens in relation to all taxes, to a greater or lesser extent, and should be taken into consideration by the legislature in fixing the rates of taxes on certain products, as a matter of tax policy, but not on individual relationships, to deny the taxpayer rights, as the repayment of ultra vires taxes, especially because it would be contradictory to do so and at the same time, deny such rights also to the ultimate consumer who eventually supported the tax burden. The price paid by consumers for goods and services, although probably higher because of taxes, cannot be confused with these taxes, so the repayment of the latter should not be hindered or embarrassed because of a (supposed) shift of tax burden.

Keywords: Indirect taxation, Restitution of ultra vires taxes, European Court of Justice, Tax shifting, Burden of tax

JEL Classification: H2, H22, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Machado Segundo, Hugo, Still on the Repayment of 'Indirect' Taxes (March 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226951 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2226951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
On that issue
Crossref
Márcio Marques , Severo
Repetição do indébito e compensação no direito tributário. São Paulo/Fortaleza: Dialética/ICET, 1999, p. 207 and ss; NEVIANI, Tarcísio. A Restituição de Tributos Indevidos, seus problemas, suas incertezas
Resenha Tributária Posted: 1983
Machado , Segundo , Hugo De Brito
Repetição do Tributo Indireto: incoerências e contradições. São Paulo: Malheiros Posted: 2011
Special Appeal 608.252/RS, Judge-Rapporteur Castro Meira
STJ , volume 2
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,517
RANK
759,919
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies