Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Docket Dividends: Growth in Shareholder Litigation Leads to Refinements in Chancery Procedure

Washington and Lee Law Review, Vol. 70, No. 1, 2013

53 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2013

Donald F. Parsons

Government of the State of Delaware - Court of Chancery

Jason Tyler

Morris Nichols Arsht & Tunnell

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The Delaware Court of Chancery is considered by many to be the United States’ premier business court. As a result, the Court of Chancery’s docket tends to reflect the latest developments in the law of business organizations and, especially, the merger & acquisition (or M&A), marketplace.

One important recent trend is the growth in shareholder representative litigation, (i.e., class actions and derivative suits). Currently, over 90% of M&A deals over $100 million are challenged by shareholders. The authors describe how this growth has resulted in new case law refining Chancery procedures relating to the handling of shareholder representative litigation. This Article addresses emerging issues in the civil procedure of shareholder representative litigation along two parallel tracks. First, it summarizes the effect that the growth in shareholder representative actions has had on four areas of Delaware procedural law: (1) awards of attorneys’ fees to plaintiffs’ counsel; (2) certification and removal of lead plaintiffs; (3) motions to stay or dismiss because of concurrent litigation in another jurisdiction; and (4) the interaction of pleading rules, forum shopping, and statutory books and records actions under DGCL Section 220. Second, the Article attempts to demonstrate how Delaware’s volume of corporate and alternative business entity cases and the responsiveness of its courts, its legislature, and the legal marketplace generally accelerate the development of refined doctrine, measured balance, and valuable predictability in substantive and procedural aspects of corporate law alike.

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Donald F. and Tyler, Jason, Docket Dividends: Growth in Shareholder Litigation Leads to Refinements in Chancery Procedure (2013). Washington and Lee Law Review, Vol. 70, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226635
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
C See Also , . J Barr Flinn &amp; Kathaleen St , ; Mccormick , Young Conaway , Llp Stargatt &amp; Taylor
(accessed by searching the document title under the publications tab) (last visited Feb. 6, 2013) (noting "the first One Forum Motion in Delaware was filed Posted: 2011-11-21
See generally Flinn & McCormick, supra note 162
Id
indicated that one forum motions were his "personal preferred approach" to address multi-fora deal litigation. Allion Healthcare Inc. S'holders Litig
C.A. No. 5022-CC Posted: 2011
C.A. Nos , volume 9281 , issue 3 Posted: 1988-04-07
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Megan Shaner
Stockholder Litigation, Fiduciary Duties, and the Officer Dilemma
Research Handbook on Representative Shareholder Litigation (Sean Griffith, Jessica Erickson, David Webber & Verity Winship eds., Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., 2018) · 29 Pages · Posted: 12 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 106
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
399
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,215
RANK
169,120
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies