Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance Audit of Anti-Corruption Regulations: A Case Study from Carpatistan Customs

Internal Auditing, September/October 2012

21 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2013

Bryane Michael

University of Hong Kong Faculty of Law

Alexey Gubin

Russian Customs Academy

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The principles and findings from internal government audits (aimed at generating recommendations to improve compliance with anti-corruption regulations) can greatly contribute to the wider anti-corruption literature. Internal audit techniques can overcome the weaknesses of the four predominant approaches to evaluating anti-corruption regulatory performance – the systems design approach, the ad-hoc controls studies approach, the descriptive legal analysis approach and the prescriptive manuals and handbooks approach. This paper discusses a compliance audit of anti-corruption regulations in an anti-corruption audit conducted in 2009. The audit findings and recommendations illustrate the ways that models and previous research in the social sciences can be used in the internal audit methodology in order to generate recommendations which provide risk-adjusted, positive net benefits for the government agency.

Keywords: internal audit, corruption, customs, Carpatistan

JEL Classification: H83, M42, H26

Suggested Citation:

Michael, Bryane and Gubin, Alexey, Compliance Audit of Anti-Corruption Regulations: A Case Study from Carpatistan Customs (2012). Internal Auditing, September/October 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2226501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Muhittin Acar , Uğur Emek
Building a clean government in Turkey: pillars, perils, and prospects
Crime, Law and Social Change , volume 49 , issue 3 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Anechiarico Frank , Ronald Goldstock
Monitoring Integrity and Performance: An Assessment of the Independent Private Sector Inspector General
Public Integrity , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 132 Posted: 2007
Frank Anechiarico , James B Jacobs
The pursuit of absolute integrity: how corruption control makes government ineffective Posted: 1996
Law on the Fighting and Preventing Corruption and Conflict of Interest
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,374
RANK
199,553
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Anti-Corruption in the Turkey's EU Accession

By Bryane Michael

Building a Clean Government in Turkey: Pillars, Perils, and Prospects

By Muhittin Acar and Ugur Emek

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies