Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Horizontal Equity Revisited

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 13, No. 3, 2012

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper 293

30 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2013 Last revised: 28 Mar 2013

James R. Repetti

Boston College - Law School

Diane M. Ring

Boston College - Law School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The role of Horizontal Equity (“HE”) in tax policy has continued to generate controversy and debate. One way to encapsulate the question after all this time is to ask — if we started with HE as our motivating concept in designing a tax system where would we be? If HE says treat equals the same, what does our tax system look like? The answer is — we don’t know because the term has no independent meaning for fairness and equality. We must turn to some theory of distributive justice to determine equality and to determine an appropriate tax burden. At this point HE collapses into one concept, which is generally referred to as Vertical Equity (“VE”). The crucial point is not that this single concept is VE, but that VE and HE are together a single concept which lacks normative content and is itself only a proxy for theories of distributive justice.

For those who remain committed to a gut sense that HE means something, we would say, “yes, but a different something.” While HE is not helpful in designing a tax system because it provides no guidance about what the system should look like, support for HE has persisted because of a shared belief that government should communicate the rationale for treating people differently. The difficulty is that while HE may tell us that government should communicate the rationale for different treatment, it does not tell us what that different treatment should be. Support for the role of HE may also be rooted in the notion that government should be even-handed in its enforcement of tax laws. HE is not helpful, however, in insuring even-handed enforcement since, in a world of finite resources, not every taxpayer can be audited. In deciding who should be audited, it is necessary to refer to something beyond HE. But perhaps the close link of tax policy to the process of tax policy creation and the administrative practice explains the unstated but visceral commitment to HE that has continued to spark debate over the past 20 years.

Suggested Citation:

Repetti, James R. and Ring, Diane M., Horizontal Equity Revisited (2012). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 13, No. 3, 2012, Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper 293, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2228259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
E G See , J Christopher , Peters
Equality Revisited, 110 HARV. L. REV. 1210 , p. 1219 - 1239 Posted: 1997
Kenneth W. Simons
The Logic of Egalitarian Norms
Boston University Law Review Pages: 76 Posted: 16 Mar 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Joseph M Dodge
A Combined Market-to-Market and Pass-Through Corporate-Shareholder Intergration Proposal, 50 TAX L. REV. 265, 276 n Posted: 1995
Joseph M. Dodge
Deconstructing the Haig-Simons Income Tax and Reconstructing It as Objective Ability-to-Pay 'Cash Income' Tax
FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 633 Pages: 47 Posted: 7 Apr 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,686
RANK
122,537
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies