Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Extinction of Tax Liabilities through Set Off and Return

The International Conference Education and Creativity for a Knowledge Based Society – LAW, 2012, Titu Maiorescu University, pp. 112-117

7 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2013 Last revised: 9 Apr 2013

Aurelia Giga

Titu Maiorescu University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

We deem that the Title VIII of the Fiscal Procedure Code is not wrong mainly as since2002 the legislator used the phrase “fiscal debts collection” through the Government Ordinance No.61/2002, when it replaced the phrase “execution of fiscal debts” that has been used under the Government Ordinance No.11/1996. We would emphasize that to the legal fiscal procedural institution “collection of fiscal debts” belongs also the field of extinction, voluntarily or by coercive force of the State, of tax obligations. It results from the legal provisions under Title VIII, with no doubt, that extinction of tax liabilities is achieved through ways that are common also for other legal obligations, such as: payment, dation in payment, prescription, enforcement: and through several specific means, such as: compensation, restitution, cancellation, insolvency, starting of the judicial reorganization procedure or through bankruptcy.

Keywords: tax liability

JEL Classification: A1

Suggested Citation:

Giga, Aurelia, Extinction of Tax Liabilities through Set Off and Return (2012). The International Conference Education and Creativity for a Knowledge Based Society – LAW, 2012, Titu Maiorescu University, pp. 112-117, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2229295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2229295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies