Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Characteristics and Default Prediction Modeling for Small Firms. Evidence from Small Italian Firms. Preliminary Findings.

Atti del XXXV Convegno annuale AIDEA "Management senza confini. Gli studi di management: tradizione e paradigmi emergenti". pp. 1-18, Accademia Italiana di Economia Aziendale, ISBN: 9788890687358

Posted: 8 Mar 2013 Last revised: 29 May 2017

Francesco Ciampi

University of Florence - Department of Business Administration

Niccolo Gordini

Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca - Department of Economics, Management and Statistics (DEMS)

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

From the 1960s onwards, a great number of studies focused on how to combine firm data with statistical classification models so as to predict business failure. This issue became more pressing in recent years after the Basel Capital Accords linked capital requirements to the banks’ models for corporate failure prediction. However, most of the studies use mainly economic-financial ratios as independent variables, and they mostly focus on large and medium enterprises. In our study, logistic regression was applied to a sample of 760 Italian small enterprises (SEs) in order to test the accuracy of a company default prediction model based on both economic-financial ratios and managerial variables (such as propensities, personal convictions, experience, skills and education). We then compared the results obtained to those from a similar model, based on the same sample of firms, which used only economic-financial ratios. Our results show that: i) the model based on both financial ratios and managerial characteristics has a higher accuracy rate than the other one, and this is the case both when logistic regression is applied to the aggregate sample and when the decisional function is separately calculated according to size, geographical area and business sector; ii) when logistic regression is applied separately according to size, geographical area and business sector, both models are significantly more accurate than when the decisional function is calculated on the aggregate sample; and iii) the greatest increase in accuracy (in point ii) is obtained when the decisional function is calculated separately according to firm size. These results suggest that including managerial variables gives a marked improvement to a SE default prediction model’s success rate; and they also suggest that SEs should be assessed with specifically designed models.

Keywords: Small Enterprises, Default Prediction Models, Managerial Characteristics, Financial Ratios, Scoring, Rating

Suggested Citation:

Ciampi, Francesco and Gordini, Niccolo, Managerial Characteristics and Default Prediction Modeling for Small Firms. Evidence from Small Italian Firms. Preliminary Findings. (2012). Atti del XXXV Convegno annuale AIDEA "Management senza confini. Gli studi di management: tradizione e paradigmi emergenti". pp. 1-18, Accademia Italiana di Economia Aziendale, ISBN: 9788890687358, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2229850
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Milan Bicocca Department of Economics, Management & Statistics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies