Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Accounting Reforms in China: Towards an Accounting Movement Theory

48 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2013

Songlan (Stella) Peng

York University

Cameron Graham

York University - Schulich School of Business

Kathryn Bewley

Ryerson University - Ted Rogers School of Management

Date Written: February 7, 2013

Abstract

How do accounting principles become generally accepted? This study develops an analytical framework for the process of general acceptance based on research into social movements. Social movement theory (SMT) has its roots in management and sociology research. We draw on SMT to develop a framework adapted to the highly institutionalized field of accounting. Looking at the stop-start process that began in 1997 and eventually led to the acceptance of fair value accounting (FVA) in China, we show that SMT-based factors can explain the success and speed with which a new accounting principle like FVA is introduced into practice. The initial failure of Chinese FVA proponents to introduce it in 2000, followed by the success of their efforts a few years later, offers us a unique opportunity to come to grips with the factors that lead to general acceptance. This study provides a theory-based analysis of processes that in some respects are unique to the Chinese setting, offering us a glimpse of accounting in an emerging economy. However, because the field of Chinese financial accounting shares many institutional features with the rest of the world, the theoretical model we develop can also provide insights into accounting standards setting in other jurisdictions.

Keywords: Social movement theory, accounting movement theory, fair value accounting, accounting standard setting, China, International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS, generally accepted accounting principles

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Peng, Songlan and Graham, Cameron and Bewley, Kathryn, Fair Value Accounting Reforms in China: Towards an Accounting Movement Theory (February 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2229475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2229475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
R Ball
Market and political/regulatory perspectives on the recent accounting scandals
Journal of Accounting Resarch , volume 47 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 323 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Baker
Numbers start to add up in China. South China Morning Post Posted: 2006-11-03
B.-H Bao , D.-H Bao
LIFO adoption: A technology diffusion analysis. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 303 - 319 Posted: 1989
Crossref
M E Barth
Fair value accounting: Evidence from investment securities and the market valuation of banks
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1994
Load more
1 Citations
Andrey I. Artemenkov , Olga Medvedeva
Coвременные течения в теориях Экономических измерений: анализ и макроэкономические последствия (Modern Developments within the Fields of Economic Measurements: Analysis and Macroeconomic Implications)
53 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 97
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,497
RANK
262,460
1 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies