Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
FASB's Failure to Regulate Off-Balance Sheet Special-Purpose Entities and the Downfall of Securitization

12 Asper Rev. Int’l Bus. & Trade L. 39 (2012)

36 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2013

Charles J. Abrams

Miami University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Corporate off-balance sheet transactions that used special-purpose entities (“SPEs”) facilitated the expansion of structured finance during the years leading up to the Great Recession. Specifically, SPEs conferred bankruptcy remote, liquidity, leverage and interest rate risk benefits on their sponsors, resulting in the growth of securitization and the asset-backed commercial paper markets. To obtain these benefits, sponsor firms needed to avoid recognizing SPEs’ assets and liabilities on their balance sheets. This avoidance depended on whether the accounting rules treated the transfer of assets between a sponsor and its SPE as a true sale or a loan.

The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) deficient accounting rules that governed the true sale treatment between SPEs and their sponsoring firms increased the information asymmetries, over-leveraging and risk-retention problems that flowed through the securitization pipeline and shadow banking system. This article first provides a description of FASB's changes to the true sale and consolidation rules of SPEs prior to the Great Recession. It then shows that FASB’s rules failed to appropriately regulate SPEs in two ways: first, FASB created a flawed concept known as a qualified special-purpose entity (“QSPE”). By meeting a few requirements, sponsors could set-up QSPEs, which automatically received true sale treatment. FASB’s rules allowed sponsors to retain residual interests in their QSPEs without simultaneously accounting for the risks on their financial statements. Second, FASB failed to address the well-known problem of sponsor firms providing implicit recourse for their off-balance sheet SPEs. When the recession surfaced and numerous SPEs began collapsing, many financial institutions chose to honor their implicit recourse agreements and bailout their failing SPEs. This resulted in significant unaccounted for losses to sponsor firms. The article proceeds by explaining the ramifications of FASB’s failure and concludes by discussing recent remedial actions.

Keywords: Financial Accounting Standards Board, Special-Purpose Entities, Special-Purpose Vehicles, Great Recession, Structured Finance, Economics, Corporate Governance, leverage, risk, liquidity, asset-backed commercial paper, Corporate law, Government, Accounting, Regulation

JEL Classification: A10, M41, K00, K22, K23, K20, E58, E44, E10, E62, E42, G14, G28, G21, G24, G32, G33

Suggested Citation:

Abrams, Charles J., FASB's Failure to Regulate Off-Balance Sheet Special-Purpose Entities and the Downfall of Securitization (2012). 12 Asper Rev. Int’l Bus. & Trade L. 39 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2230731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Report Us , On Fishtail , Sundance Bacchus , Slapshot
Powers, supra note 100
Four Enron Transactions Funded and Facilitated by U.S. Financial Institutions: Hearing Before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, 107th Cong Posted: 2003
United States Government Printing
US, Examining Enron: Developments Regarding Electricity Price Manipulation in California: Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Foreign Commerce and Tourism of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 107th Cong Posted: 2005
&amp; Gorton , Souleles
Crossref
&amp; Soroosh , Ciesielski
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,691
RANK
202,849
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies