Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Governance and Disclosure of the Firm as an Enterprise Entity

Seattle University Law Review, Vol. 36, No. 2, pp. 391-416, 2013

26 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2013

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 11, 2013

Abstract

Financial crises and scandals have focused attention on received systems of corporate governance and disclosure in a way many may never have imagined and few welcomed. Not only do reforms deems to be necessary to protect stakeholders, including shareholders, but also a different understanding of the relationship between shareholding, securities markets and the business firm. This paper criticises three daydreams concerning the business firm – as a “black-box,” an “owner-entrepreneur” or a “legal person” – contrasting them with the idea of the firm as an enterprise entity. The latter concept points to a comprehensive approach that integrates accounting with economics and law. From this perspective, the accounting system is an integral part of the institutional framework of the business firm, one that demonstrates the combined implications of economic, accounting, and legal matters. In a joint business affair fraught with unfolding changes coupled with asymmetries of resources, access, control and information, the accounting system copes with the economic and monetary process generated by the whole ongoing enterprise through time. In particular, the accounting system represents and controls enterprise capitals (assets and liabilities) and incomes (revenues and costs); through its working, the accounting system allows this special enterprise process to exist and function autonomously from, and interactively with holding of shareholders’ claims and other financial securities which may be traded on Share Exchanges. Drawing upon this frame of reference and analysis, this article develops a comparative assessment of alternative corporate representations, driving implications for corporate governance, reporting and social responsibility of corporate groups.

Keywords: accounting representation, theory of the firm, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, financial performance, financialization, accounting regulation, financial regulation

JEL Classification: G30, M40, D20, L20

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, The Governance and Disclosure of the Firm as an Enterprise Entity (March 11, 2013). Seattle University Law Review, Vol. 36, No. 2, pp. 391-416, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2231340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Robé
Kurt A. Strasser , Phillip I. Blumberg
Legal Models and Business Realities of Enterprise Groups - Mismatch and Change
CLPE Research Paper No. 18/2009 Pages: 28 Posted: 30 Jul 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Thorstein See Generally , Absentee Veblen , Ownership
Posted: 1923
Williams
, volume 3
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,571
RANK
74,813
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Taxation, Corporate Social Responsibility and the Business Enterprise

By Reuven S. Avi-yonah

The Governance and Disclosure of the Firm as an Enterprise Entity

By Yuri Biondi

The HM 'Treasure's Island': A Theoretical Analysis of Central Government Accounting Standards in UK

By Yuri Biondi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies