Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Tax Incentives in the United States: Will Recent Market Incentives Reduce the U.S.'s Dependence on Oil?

Market Instruments and Sustainable Economy, p. 573, Ana Yábar Sterling, et al., eds., 2012

Arizona Legal Studies Discussion Paper No. 13-17

20 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2013

Mona L. Hymel

University of Arizona - James E. Rogers College of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

The United States' has invested in non-renewable energy technologies (specifically fossil fuels) for over a century. The fossil fuel industry is robust, wielding significant power to control U.S. energy policies through its connections within the federal government. Yet, since 2005, the federal government has enacted a number of laws that provide financial incentives for alternative and renewable energy sources. These incentives (mostly tax benefits) address both supply and demand-side aspects of promoting alternative and renewable energy. However, given the long history of government support for fossil fuels, the impact of these recent initiatives in changing the U.S. energy mix is unclear. This article considers the long-term implications of federal financial support to the U.S. energy industry (both fossil fuel and alternative energy). The article demonstrates that alternative/renewable energy sources must receive a dramatic increase in investment incentives if the United States is ever to achieve a new energy mix that is not predominated by fossil fuels. Such incentives, however, should not last forever. Unlike fossil fuel incentives, which have subsidized non-renewables for over 100 years, federal assistance must cease when the subsidized industry can independently compete in the energy market. Looking back at historical energy policies chronicles not only the development of federal tax laws and policies, but also the contributions that the states have made toward encouraging a sustainable energy mix.

Keywords: fossil fuel, non-renewable energy, financial incentives, alternative energy, renewable energy, tax benefits

Suggested Citation:

Hymel, Mona L., Environmental Tax Incentives in the United States: Will Recent Market Incentives Reduce the U.S.'s Dependence on Oil? (2012). Market Instruments and Sustainable Economy, p. 573, Ana Yábar Sterling, et al., eds., 2012, Arizona Legal Studies Discussion Paper No. 13-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2233970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
See Salvatore Lazzari
, volume 1 Posted: 2003-08-20
I R C See
Posted: 2012
Gao See , Report
Posted: 2000
Crossref
Gao See , Report
Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,923
RANK
439,313
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies