Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards European Accounting Law

17 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2013

Steven Hijink

Radboud University Nijmegen

Date Written: January 13, 2012

Abstract

In this paper the development of EU IFRS within the European Union is discussed. Listed companies based in one of the European Member States are to apply the IFRS as approved by the European Commission in their consolidated annual accounts. These accounting standards – the EU IFRS – form part of the European legal structure and are directly binding on such companies. But can they also be deemed to constitute accounting law? This may be questioned when testing the drafting process of the EU IFRS against the constitutional framework. Furthermore, there is a fragmented picture regarding the supervision and enforcement of compliance with the EU IFRS. There is room for improvement on both points.

Keywords: IFRS, accounting law, IAS Regulation, enforcement

JEL Classification: K2, K22, M4, G18

Suggested Citation:

Hijink, Steven, Towards European Accounting Law (January 13, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2233089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2233089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
Fourth Company Law Directive"), and Seventh Council Directive of 13 June 1983 based on Article , volume 54
Crossref
K Van Hulle
Geharmoniseerd en eenvormig jaarrekeningenrecht in de EU: een moeilijk huwelijk?" (Harmonized and uniform accounting law in the EU: a difficult marriage? Posted: 2006
K Van Hulle
Geharmoniseerd en eenvormig jaarrekeningenrecht in de EU: een moeilijk huwelijk? Posted: 2006
Cf
Accounting Harmonization: a new strategy vis-à-vis international harmonization" (COM(95)508 NL; hereinafter "Communication from the European Commission"), p. 3. The Communication from the European Commission can be found at www
Load more
1 Citations
Iris H-Y Chiu
The EU Sustainable Finance Agenda: Developing Governance for Double Materiality in Sustainability Metrics
European Business Organization Law Review , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 87 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,399
RANK
692,613
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Sources eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies