Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Potential Game Changer in E-Commerce Taxation

State Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 10, 2013

UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2233751

5 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2013

Andrew J. Haile

Elon University School of Law

David Gamage

University of Missouri School of Law

Darien Shanske

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: March 15, 2013

Abstract

In this essay, we evaluate recent legislative proposals for Congress to authorize state taxation of e-commerce. We argue that these proposals contain a potential game-changing innovation — the requirement that states provide remote sellers with “adequate software” for calculating use tax due within the state. Properly implemented, we explain how this innovation could force states to internalize the compliance costs of levying tax collection obligations on remote sellers, thereby incentivizing the states to simplify their sales and use tax statutes and resolving concerns about states overburdening interstate commerce.

Keywords: e-commerce, internet commerce, sales tax, Quill

Suggested Citation:

Haile, Andrew J. and Gamage, David and Shanske, Darien, A Potential Game Changer in E-Commerce Taxation (March 15, 2013). State Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 10, 2013, UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2233751, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2233751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,910
RANK
152,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Berkeley School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies