Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Suppose FIRPTA Was Repealed

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, 2013

49 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2013

Willard B. Taylor

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 2013

Abstract

This article argues, as others have before, that the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (or “FIRPTA”), or at least the provisions of FIRPTA relating to “United States real property holding corporations,” should be repealed. Their enactment in 1980 was misguided and in any event changes in the Internal Revenue Code since then have made the provisions obsolete. But if FIRPTA is repealed, in whole or in part, the article argues that the lack of parity between foreign investment in real property that is made directly or through a partnership, on the one hand, and foreign investment in a real estate investment trust (or a regulated investment company that invests in shares of real estate investment trusts) should be dealt with. Otherwise, repeal will exacerbate existing distortions (which were already pushed further by FIRPTA) resulting from the choice of the entity used to make an investment in US real property. The article also suggests that repeal of FIRPTA would provide an opportunity to look at the taxation of foreign investment in the United States more broadly and in particular the rules that tax income from U.S. real property. The tax treatment of inward investment is a generally neglected subject.

The article concludes by arguing against legislation that would keep the FIRPTA rules and simply expand provisions of present law that favor foreign investment through real estate investment trusts, such as the Real Estate Jobs and Investment Act of 2011.

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Willard B., Suppose FIRPTA Was Repealed (March 2013). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 14, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2234713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Wither FIRPTA, supra note 3, at 304 (citing the ability in the absence of FIRPTA to avoid tax on the disposition of real estate that was not used in a U.S. trade or business, including personal residences, and also on options and some non-creditor interests)
139. I.R.C. § , volume 897 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Regs
)(i) (providing that an interest other than as a creditor -also includes any direct or indirect right to share in the appreciation in the value, or in the gross or net proceeds or profits generated by, the real property‖)
141. Regs. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 897 - 898
Rev
-1 C.B. 1180 (holding that a notional principal contract based on broad based index on commercial or residential real estate was not an option to acquire within the meaning of section 897 because the index was broad based) Posted: 2008
I R C
, volume 865 Posted: 0988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
370,049
2 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Real Estate eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies