Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is a Tax Amnesty a Good Fiscal Policy? A Review of State Experience in the USA

Posted: 17 Mar 2013

Hari Luitel

Algoma University

Gerry Mahar

Algoma University

Date Written: March 17, 2013

Abstract

During and immediately after the recessions of 2001 and 2007-2009, tax amnesties in the American states rebounded in popularity. Is a tax amnesty a good fiscal policy? To address this question, we review the experience of US state tax amnesty between 1982-2012 and identify the literature that support the argument that tax amnesties not only raise higher tax revenues for the state treasury in the short term, but also do not have negative effects on tax compliance in the long term. We then point out some of the statistical pitfalls in the literature and explain why they are important.

Keywords: tax amnesty, tax revenue, tax compliance

JEL Classification: H20, H29, H71, H80

Suggested Citation:

Luitel, Hari and Mahar, Gerry, Is a Tax Amnesty a Good Fiscal Policy? A Review of State Experience in the USA (March 17, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2234663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2234663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Amnesty, Enforcement and Tax Policy

By Richard J. Zeckhauser and Herman B. Leonard

An Economic Analysis of Tax Amnesties

By Peter Stella

Economic and Political Determinants of Tax Amnesties in the U.S. States

By Eric Le Borgne

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies