Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Abuse According to Whom?

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 1-55, 2013

University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-11

57 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2013 Last revised: 25 Apr 2014

Shannon Weeks McCormack

University of Washington School of Law

Date Written: March 17, 2013

Abstract

In 1996, Congress banned the Treasury Department from enacting retroactive regulations but provided an important exception, allowing tax regulations to apply retroactively “to prevent abuse.” Congress did not, however, explicitly define abuse; nor did it designate to any specific actor the power to do so. This Article provides the first comprehensive look at the level of deference owed a Treasury regulation’s interpretation of the Internal Revenue Code’s abuse exception. Generally, a reviewing court owes some level of deference to an agency’s interpretation of the statute it is entrusted to administer. Some statutory interpretations are entitled to receive the strong standard of deference articulated in Chevron v. Natural Resource Defense Council, while other interpretations are entitled to a lesser degree of deference under Skidmore v. Swift & Co. To date, the courts reviewing retroactive tax regulations enacted to prevent abuse have relied on administrative law principles recently rejected by the Supreme Court in Mayo Foundation v. United States. This Article is the first to apply the post-Mayo deference framework to Treasury regulations that interpret the Code’s abuse exception. This Article concludes that these regulations should receive strong Chevron deference. The Article’s contributions are significant. Through the issuance of retroactive regulations, Treasury promotes the efficient enforcement of the tax laws and deters egregious abuse. But case law suggests that the courts and Treasury Department have very different interpretations of the Code’s abuse exception. Therefore, the ability of Treasury to respond to and prevent aggressive tax behavior through retroactive tax regulation may turn largely on which actor possesses primary authority to define tax abuse.

Keywords: tax regulation, treasury regulation, deference, Skidmore, Chevron, Mayo

Suggested Citation:

McCormack, Shannon Weeks, Tax Abuse According to Whom? (March 17, 2013). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 1-55, 2013, University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2234757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Staff , Of , Comm , On , 104th Taxation , Cong
BACKGROUND AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE TAXPAYER BILL OF RIGHTS 22 (Comm Posted: 1995
Id
at 2822 (statement of Sen. David Pryor, referring to Reid's "maiden address
Id
See also IRS Implementation of the Taxpayers' Bill of Rights: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Private Retirement Plans and Oversight of the Internal Revenue Service of the S
Comm. on Finance , volume 3 Posted: 1990
2831 (1992) where Senators Pryor and Reid recount the formation of their partnership. For instance, Pryor recounts: "I will never forget at the conclusion of [Reid's maiden address] I sent the distinguished Senator a note saying I want to be your partner, I want to join with you because we need to give the average taxpayer in our country additional rights in dealing with the Internal Revenue Service , volume 3342 , p. 3730 - 52 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,824
RANK
337,844
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies