Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard in Nigeria for Sustainable National Development: An Evaluation of Challenges and Opportunities

National Journal of Humanities, Science and Technology (NAJHUST) MAIDEN EDITION 2012

1 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2013

Abdulsalam Mas'ud

Hussaini Adamu Federal Polytechnic, Kazaure - Nigeria

Date Written: November 17, 2011

Abstract

The rapidity in global adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) by more than 120 countries as at September 2011 indicates that harmonization and uniformity in financial reporting throughout the world is attainable. However, despite the opportunities that can be exploited through IFRS adoption some countries encountered some setbacks in the adoption process. Among the problems being encountered are filing a legal action against the standard’s adoption, cost implication and low level of preparedness by both governments and standard implementers. For the fact that IFRS adoption is important ingredient to sustainable national development in Nigeria, this paper conducts a SWOT analysis to the impending IFRS adoption in Nigeria. On the strength side Nigeria possesses all the elements needed for IFRS adoption. However, on the weakness side, it was found that there are some flaws in these elements. It was also found that despite the opportunities such as; increased flow of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), accessing capital by Nigerian companies from abroad and International rating, the country need to be aware of threats such as the level of preparedness, transition cost and the complexity of IFRS. Based on the SWOT analysis conducted, appropriate recommendations were made.

Keywords: Harmonization, Financial Reporting, Standard, Adoption, International

Suggested Citation:

Mas'ud, Abdulsalam, Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard in Nigeria for Sustainable National Development: An Evaluation of Challenges and Opportunities (November 17, 2011). National Journal of Humanities, Science and Technology (NAJHUST) MAIDEN EDITION 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,485
RANK
204,845
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies