Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Tax Compliance Through Coercive and Legitimate Power of Authorities

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2013 - 01

41 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2013

Eva B. Hofmann

University of Vienna

Katharina Gangl

University of Göttingen; Zeppelin University

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Jennifer Stark

Department of Applied Psychology: Work, Education, Economy

Date Written: March 19, 2013

Abstract

Strict enforcement and supportive procedures by tax authorities are often discussed as means of enhancing tax compliance. However, it is still not clear how these strategies influence tax compliance. The extended “slippery-slope framework” postulates that coercive power and legitimate power lead to tax compliance, albeit by leading the taxpayer along different motivational paths. The exercising of coercive power reduces citizens’ implicit trust in the authorities and increases the need for enforced compliance and perceptions of an antagonistic climate between tax authorities and taxpayers. Legitimate power is assumed to increase reason-based trust, voluntary cooperation and perceptions of a service climate. Two experimental studies that have manipulated qualities of power either separately or simultaneously have suggested that legitimate power affects intended tax compliance in line with theoretical predictions, whereas the effect of coercive power is less clear.

Keywords: tax compliance, coercive power, legitimate power, trust, “slippery-slope framework”

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Eva B. and Gangl, Katharina and Gangl, Katharina and Kirchler, Erich and Stark, Jennifer, Enhancing Tax Compliance Through Coercive and Legitimate Power of Authorities (March 19, 2013). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2013 - 01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2235594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,777
RANK
152,349
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies