Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measurement in Financial Reporting: The Need for Concepts

Accounting Horizons, 2014, Forthcoming

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 140

40 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2013 Last revised: 7 Dec 2013

Mary E. Barth

Stanford University - Graduate School of Business

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

The Conceptual Framework neither specifies the objective or definition of accounting measurement, nor provides a conceptual basis for choosing among alternative measurement bases. This paper offers a starting point for developing measurement concepts based on existing Framework concepts, including the objective of financial reporting, the qualitative characteristics of useful financial information, and the definitions of assets and liabilities. The paper focuses on subsequent measurement of individual assets and liabilities and concludes that fair value measurement is more consistent with existing concepts than either modified or unmodified historical cost. Although unmodified historical cost is consistent with some concepts, modified historical cost — which is widely used today — largely is not. Also, aggregate amounts, such as total assets and total liabilities, based on modified or unmodified historical cost lack meaning. Because financial statements include such aggregate amounts and changes in amounts of individual assets and liabilities determine comprehensive income, measurements concepts also need to contemplate these measurements.

Keywords: Financial reporting concepts, measurement, standard setting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G15

Suggested Citation:

Barth, Mary E., Measurement in Financial Reporting: The Need for Concepts (December 1, 2013). Accounting Horizons, 2014, Forthcoming, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 140, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235759 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2235759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Charles Richard Baker
A Critique of the Concept of Measurement in Financial Accounting
Pages: 25 Posted: 16 Jan 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , P Brown
A Retrospective, The Accounting Review, forthcoming Posted: 1968
Crossref
M E Barth
Relative Measurement Errors Among Alternative Pension Asset and Liability Measures
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 433 - 463 Posted: 1991
M E Barth
Including Estimates of the Future in Today's Financial Statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , p. 271 - 285 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,933
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,186
RANK
10,000
11 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Capital Markets Research in Accounting

By S.p. Kothari

What is the Intrinsic Value of the Dow?

By Charles M.c. Lee, James N. Myers, ...

Accruals and the Prediction of Future Cash Flows

By Mary E. Barth, Donald P. Cram, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies