Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Malpractice: Issues and Avoidance

Bloomberg BNA Tax Management Memorandum, Vol. 54, No. 2 2013

Chapman University Law Research Paper No. 13-7

41 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2013

Michael B. Lang

Chapman University, The Dale E. Fowler School of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

Despite considerable regulation of tax practitioners by both statutory rules and professional ethical standards, when a tax advisor mishandles a client’s tax work, whether because of incompetence, a conflict of interest or for some other reason, the client seeking redress must generally resort to malpractice or related actions against the errant tax advisor. Such actions draw upon a peculiar mixture of tax law, professional ethical standards promulgated by state bars and the IRS Office of Professional Responsibility and torts law, three areas of law usually frequented by different groups of experts. This article attempts to further understanding of this peculiar mixture by addressing core issues of malpractice and related causes of action in a tax practice context, covering issues such as the duties to the client, possible causes of action, damages, privity, statutes of limitations and repose, and the relevance of ethical rules. In addition, it discusses key procedures that tax practitioners can use to reduce their malpractice risk and explores some classic tax practice situations fraught with malpractice potential. While the discussion is largely based upon the standards applicable to lawyers, much of it applies equally to other tax practitioners, particularly CPAs. However, unlike other tax practitioners, lawyers generally cannot limit their malpractice liability prospectively or, if they can, can only do so with some difficulty. In addition, in some contexts lawyers may be subject to special rules, such as with regard to the applicable statutes of limitations. The article represents one view of important legal issues and concerns that tax professionals should bear in mind, along with other factors, in trying to prevent, avoid or mitigate the risk presented by malpractice-type litigation.

Keywords: Tax, Malpractice, Issues, Regulations, Practitioners, ethical standards, tax advisors, IRS, Professional Responsibility, tax practice, tort, malpractive

JEL Classification: A1, A2

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Michael B., Tax Malpractice: Issues and Avoidance (January 1, 2013). Bloomberg BNA Tax Management Memorandum, Vol. 54, No. 2 2013, Chapman University Law Research Paper No. 13-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
211,623
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Legal Ethics & Professional Responsibility eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies