Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the Treasury Exempt Its Own Companies from Tax? The $45 Billion GM NOL Carryforward

Cato Public Policy Papers Vol. 1, 2011

54 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2013

J. Mark Ramseyer

Harvard Law School

Eric Bennett Rasmusen

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Business Economics & Public Policy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 18, 2011

Abstract

To discourage firms from buying and selling tax deductions, Section 382 of the tax code limits the ability of one firm to use the ‘‘net operating losses’’ (NOLs) of another firm that it acquires. Under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the U.S. Treasury lent a large amount of money to General Motors. In bankruptcy, it then transformed the debt into stock. GM did not make many cars anyone wanted to buy, but it did have $45 billion in NOLs. Unfortunately for the Treasury, if it now sold the stock it acquired in bankruptcy, it would trigger Sec. 382. Foreseeing this, the market would pay much less for its stock in GM. Treasury solved this problem by issuing a series of notices in which it announced that the law did not apply to itself. Sec. 382 says that the NOL limits apply when a firm’s ownership changes. That rule would not apply to any firm bought with TARP funds, declared Treasury. Notwithstanding the straightforward and all-inclusive statutory language, GM could use its NOLs in full after Treasury sold out. The Treasury issued similar notices about Citigroup and AIG.

Treasury had no legal or economic justification for any of these notices, but the press did not notice. Precisely because they involved such arcane provisions of the corporate tax code, they largely escaped public attention. The losses to the public fisc were not minor — they cost the country billions of dollars in tax revenue. That the effect could be so large and yet so hidden illustrates the risk involved in this kind of tax manipulation. The more difficult the tax rule, the more easily the government can use it to hide the cost of its policies and subsidize favored groups. We suggest that Congress give its members standing to challenge unlegislated tax law changes in court.

Keywords: TARP, Troubled Asset Relief Program, U.S. Treasury, American financial crisis, United States tax breaks, Corporate tax breaks

JEL Classification: H20, H25, E63

Suggested Citation:

Ramseyer, J. Mark and Rasmusen, Eric Bennett, Can the Treasury Exempt Its Own Companies from Tax? The $45 Billion GM NOL Carryforward (March 18, 2011). Cato Public Policy Papers Vol. 1, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Aig
Annual Report Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Auerbach , M Devereux , H Simpson
Taxing Corporate Income.'' In Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review Posted: 2010
F Buckley
Forthcoming. An American Illness
N Bunkley , G M Resurgent , Posts
New York Times Posted: 2010-02-04
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,768
RANK
101,035
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Regional Grants as Pork Barrel Politics

By Kevin S. Milligan and Michael Smart

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies