Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Good, the Bad and a New Kind of Prenup: An Analysis of the Ohio Legacy Trust Act and What Asset Protection Trusts Will Mean for Ohio

The Cleveland State Law Review, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2013 Last revised: 22 Oct 2013

Kevin McKinnis

Cleveland State University

Date Written: March 18, 2013

Abstract

This law review note, forthcoming in The Cleveland State Law Review, provides an in-depth analysis of the Ohio Legacy Trust Act and explores the potential effects the Act will have on Ohio. This note also explores the requirements to establish a Legacy Trust and the potential federal income and estate tax consequences. In the latter portion of the note, the possible ethical implications for Ohio attorneys is examined, as well as the arguments creditors will make when attempting to void a disposition to a Legacy Trust.

Keywords: Ohio Legacy Trust Act, Legacy Trust, domestic asset protection trusts, APT, DAPT, self settled trusts, ethics, ORC 5816

Suggested Citation:

McKinnis, Kevin, The Good, the Bad and a New Kind of Prenup: An Analysis of the Ohio Legacy Trust Act and What Asset Protection Trusts Will Mean for Ohio (March 18, 2013). The Cleveland State Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2235103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2235103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Id
7 (citing Private Ltr Posted: 200944002
Priv. Ltr. Rul Posted: 200944002
Crossref
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
520
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,175
RANK
123,650
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies