Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Supercharged IPO

Vanderbilt Law Review, Forthcoming

USC CLEO Research Paper No. C13-6

USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 13-6

55 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2013 Last revised: 31 Mar 2013

Victor Fleischer

UC-Irvine School of Law

Nancy C. Staudt

Washington University Law School

Date Written: March 26, 2013

Abstract

A new innovation on the IPO landscape has emerged in the last two decades, allowing owner-founders to extract billions of dollars from newly-public companies. These IPOs — labeled supercharged IPOs — have been the subject of widespread debate and controversy: lawyers, financial experts, journalists, and Members of Congress have all weighed in on the topic. Some have argued that supercharged IPOs are a “brilliant, just brilliant,” while others have argued they are “underhanded” and “bizarre.”

In this article, we explore the supercharged IPO and explain how and why this new deal structure differs from the more traditional IPO. We then outline various theories of financial innovation and note that the extant literature provides useful explanations for why supercharged IPOs emerged and spread so quickly across industries and geographic areas. The literature also provides support for both legitimate and opportunistic uses of the supercharged IPO.

With the help of a large-N quantitative study — the first of its kind — we investigate the adoption and diffusion of this new innovation. We find that the reason parties have begun to supercharge their IPO is not linked to a desire to steal from naïve investors, but rather for tax planning purposes. Supercharged IPOs enable both owner-founders and public investors to save substantial amounts of money in federal and state taxes. With respect to the spread of the innovation, we find that elite lawyers, especially those located in New York City, are largely responsible for the changes that we observe on the IPO landscape. We conclude our study by demonstrating how our empirical findings can be used to 1) advance the literature on innovation, 2) assist firms going public in the future, and 3) shape legal reform down the road.

Keywords: financial innovation, tax, innovation, IPO

Suggested Citation:

Fleischer, Victor and Staudt, Nancy Christine, The Supercharged IPO (March 26, 2013). Vanderbilt Law Review, Forthcoming, USC CLEO Research Paper No. C13-6, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 13-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2236592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
823
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,556
RANK
68,436
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stateless Income

By Edward D. Kleinbard

Tax Haven Incorporation for U.S. Headquartered Firms: No Exodus Yet

By Eric J. Allen and Susan C. Morse

The David R. Tillinghast Lecture: The Rising Tax-Electivity of U.S. Corporate Residence

By Daniel Shaviro

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies