Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Tax Procedure

584 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2013

John A. Townsend

Independent; University of Houston Law Center

There are 6 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 20, 2013

Abstract

This nonfootnoted version of a larger text is targeted to the tax procedure student at a law school. It can be for a tax procedure class in the basic law school curriculum leading to a JD degree. It can also be for graduate level (usually LLM degree) students. I use this text in my University of Houston School of Law course on Tax Procedure which includes both JD and LLM students. The text of this version is the same as a much larger footnoted version which, because of the extent of the footnotes is more suitable for practitioners than for students. In this student nonfootnoted edition, key statute and case citations that the student should know are in the text itself and thus available to students using this version.

Keywords: Tax Procedure, Federal Tax Procedure

JEL Classification: H29

Suggested Citation:

Townsend, John A. and Townsend, John A., Federal Tax Procedure (February 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2236490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2236490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,783
RANK
26,094
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies