Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethic-Based Management vs. Corporate Misgovernance - New Approach to Financial Statement Analysis

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Volume 25, No. 2 (July-December, 2012)

10 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013 Last revised: 10 Apr 2013

M. R. K. Swamy

Om Sai Ram Centre for Financial Management Research

Date Written: March 21, 2013

Abstract

It appears from experiences that today’s governance (Man-Management) has been degraded to such an extent that moral bankruptcy has become an integral part of day to day business activities — as evidenced by recent experiences — where righteousness is at a discount (account tampering, manipulation/falsification of accounts and frauds are rampant); truth has become rare, trickery is spreading and integrity is vanishing); and selfishness is growing alarmingly in all spheres of human activity. There is an urgent need to resort to the use of the proposed new and unique approach to financial statement analysis which, according to the Wharton School (University of Pennsylvania, USA) Corporate Finance economist, is an unique, novel and revolutionary approach.

Keywords: Ethic based management, Moral bankruptcy, Novel financial statement analysis

JEL Classification: E65, G21, G33, M14, M41, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Swamy, M. R. K., Ethic-Based Management vs. Corporate Misgovernance - New Approach to Financial Statement Analysis (March 21, 2013). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Volume 25, No. 2 (July-December, 2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2237568
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
M R K Swamy
Focus on Benjamin Franklin Managerial Ethic: Sathya Sai Baba Code of Virtuebased Management -A Guide to Sound Financial Management
Journal of Financial Management and Analysis Posted: 2002-06
Morality as a Tangible Asset: Ethical Management Considerations
Journal of Financial Management and Analysis Posted: 1994-06
S Mezentsev
The Ethics of the Oligarchs
Business in Russia Posted: 2001
E J Lusk , M Halperin , M Bern
Towards Reformulation of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) Focusing on Idiosyncratic Risk and Roll's Meta Analysis
Journal of Financial Management and Analysis , issue 1 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,270
RANK
315,702
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies