Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Tax Problems of EU and Third Countries

9 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2013

Nataša Žunić

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Law

Date Written: March 21, 2013

Abstract

The cross-border operation of individuals and business brings about the problems of double taxation. Long time ago countries resorted to conclusion of bilateral treaties in the attempt to eliminate these obstacles to movement and trade. Besides unilateral measures, double taxation treaties are an important instrument in today's taxation policy of many countries. In the same time double taxation treaties are also identified as tax obstacles, especially in the area of company taxation in the single market.

The EU must consider possible conflicts between the EC Treaty and the bilateral double taxation treaties that Member States have concluded with each other and with third countries. It is a part of EU general strategy and policy of addressing the crossborder tax problems. Described situation requires urgent solution and it is possible to find several proposals in this field. Although this proposals can be divided in two main groups – namely, positive and negative integration it is clear that mentioned conflict(s) can not be resolved through negative integration (of direct taxes within the EU by ECJ). But, the double taxation agreements of Member States will continue to be subject to review by the ECJ and there are certain rulings in this area that must be pointed out. The second group of solution is positive integration is consisted of several (possible) activities.

Not third, but more intermediate solution is also suggested. Since Amsterdam Treaty introduced and Nice Treaty developed further the possibilities for closer cooperation between sub-groups of “compatible” member states it is suggested “closer cooperation” because it might provide a moving forward in the area of direct taxation and cross-border tax problems.

Keywords: double taxation, treaties, positive integration, negative integration, intermediate solution

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Žunić, Nataša, Cross-Border Tax Problems of EU and Third Countries (March 21, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2237424 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2237424
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,138
RANK
588,428
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies