Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Model of Accounts Receivable Risk Management for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Business Environment

Proceedings of 7th International Conference «Economic Integration, Competition and Cooperation», 2-3 April, 2009, Opatija, University of Rijeka – Faculty of Economics, CD with Full papers

11 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2013 Last revised: 22 May 2013

Dara Ljubić

University of Mostar - Faculty of Economics

Davor Mance

University of Rijeka

Date Written: April 2, 2009

Abstract

The paper deals with accounts receivable collection risks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The conducted research and analysis of existing models of accounts receivable collection risks, created a new model of collection risk management suitable for the business environment found in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The model is also applicable in other similar transition economies lacking the modern market economy features. No risk management model can replace a fully functioning legal and economic system. Implementation of reforms in all areas is a fundamental condition for solving these problems. Nevertheless, a well designed accounts receivable risk management is an appropriate transition management tool that may create the preconditions for recovery. The proposed model is based on cash flow indicators, working capital and asset ratios, current and quick ratios, and debt-equity ratios. It is optimal in assuring against accounts receivable payment risks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it was based on Bosnian financial statements data, and collateral and insurance instruments in usage in the country.

Keywords: accounts receivable risk management, liquidity risk, illiquidity, cash generation, accounts receivable collection, transition

JEL Classification: M41, G30

Suggested Citation:

Ljubić, Dara and Mance, Davor, A Model of Accounts Receivable Risk Management for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Business Environment (April 2, 2009). Proceedings of 7th International Conference «Economic Integration, Competition and Cooperation», 2-3 April, 2009, Opatija, University of Rijeka – Faculty of Economics, CD with Full papers , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2237444 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2237444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
M V Allen , D R Myddelton
Mjenica, ček i drugi instrumenti osiguranja plaćanja Posted: 1992
V Belak , Birolla
Računovodstvene informacije i softwer na osobnim kompjutorima Posted: 1994
V Belak
Informacijski sustav menadžerskog računovodstva Posted: 1993
V Belak
Profitni centri i interna ekonomija poduzeća Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,165
RANK
176,143
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Risk Management, Capital Budgeting and Capital Structure Policy for Financial Institutions: An Integrated Approach

By Kenneth Froot and Jeremy C. Stein

Pricing Double-Trigger Reinsurance Contracts: Financial Versus Actuarial Approach

By Hato Schmeiser and Helmut Gründl

Credit Risk Management Practices – An Evaluation of Commercial Banks in Bangladesh

By Sumon Das and Shilpi Das

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies