Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonization of Slovenian Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards

14 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2013

Aleš Novak

Faculty of Organizational Sciences (Deceased)

Date Written: March 22, 2013

Abstract

With accession to the European Union Slovenia had to adopt the European Union’s legal framework, including law relating to undertakings, which among various pieces of legislation comprises also Accounting Directives, i.e. Fourth Council Directive and Seventh Council Directive, and Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 on the application of international accounting standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (hereinafter IASB). The new Companies Act (ZGD-1), which again includes basic accounting provisions, provided the basis for the second amendment of the Slovenian Accounting Standards (hereinafter SAS), which entered into force on January 1, 2006. It is still specific to SAS though that they are not focused exclusively on external financial reporting of past performance as for example International Financial Reporting Standards (hereinafter IFRS), which are issued by IASB. SAS derive from the fundamental idea that the external financial reporting should also have an impact on the fundamental accounting system with a specific solutions concerning internal reporting. In the field of external financial reporting SAS are almost completely harmonized with IFRS. In order to achieve this level of harmonization the profound amendments of SAS were needed in the following cases: property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, financial assets and last but not the least some changes in the financial statements.

Keywords: accounting harmonization, Slovenian Accounting Standards, Companies Act, Accounting Directives, International Financial Reporting Standards

Suggested Citation:

Novak, Aleš, Harmonization of Slovenian Accounting Standards with International Financial Reporting Standards (March 22, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2237958 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2237958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
271,971
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies