Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Gaps in Normative Regulation of Submission of Revised Tax Declarations

The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 5, May 2012

10 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Viacheslav Kizilov

Scientific and Practical Magazine 'The Topical Issues of Public Law'

Date Written: May 16, 2012

Abstract

Considers problems associated with the emergence of rights and duties on the clarification of tax declarations, as well as the application of tax penalties for noncompliance the obligation of filing a revised tax declaration. Attention is drawn to the possibility of emergence of tax liabilities in connection with the elimination of errors of accounting, making changes in the accounting, which do not relate to the mistakes of drawing up a tax declaration.

Keywords: tax declaration, revised tax declaration, mistakes of declaration filling in

Suggested Citation:

Kizilov, Viacheslav, Gaps in Normative Regulation of Submission of Revised Tax Declarations (May 16, 2012). The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 5, May 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238514
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Nalogovyj kodeks Rossijskoj Federacii, chast' pervaja ot 31 ijulja 1998 g. № 146-FZ
The Tax Code of the Russian Federation Posted: 1996-11-21
Garant System
Moscow: 2012. 3. The resolution of the Presidium of the Higher Arbitration Court of the
Russian Federation No. 3299/10 of October 12 Posted: 2010
Russian Federation No. 7265/11 of November 15 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,129
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies