Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross-Border Tax Problems of EU and Third Countries

Proceedings of 7th International Conference «Economic Integration, Competition and Cooperation», 2-3 April, 2009, Opatija, University of Rijeka – Faculty of Economics, CD with Full papers

9 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013 Last revised: 22 May 2013

Nataša Žunić Kovačević

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2009

Abstract

The cross-border operation of individuals and business brings about the problems of double taxation. Long time ago countries resorted to conclusion of bilateral treaties in the attempt to eliminate these obstacles to movement and trade. Besides unilateral measures, double taxation treaties are an important instrument in today's taxation policy of many countries. In the same time double taxation treaties are also identified as tax obstacles, especially in the area of company taxation in the single market. The EU must consider possible conflicts between the EC Treaty and the bilateral double taxation treaties that Member States have concluded with each other and with third countries. It is a part of EU general strategy and policy of addressing the tax problems. Described situation requires urgent solution and it is possible to find several proposals in this field. Although this proposals can be divided in two main groups – namely, positive and negative integration it is clear that mentioned conflict(s) can not be resolved through negative integration (of direct taxes within the EU by ECJ). But, the double taxation agreements of Member States will continue to be subject to review by the ECJ and there are certain rulings in this area that must be pointed out. The second group of solution is positive integration is consisted of several (possible) activities. Not third, but more intermediate solution is also suggested. Since Amsterdam Treaty introduced and Nice Treaty developed further the possibilities for closer cooperation between sub-groups of “compatible” member states it is suggested “closer cooperation” because it might provide a moving forward in the area of direct taxation and cross-border tax problems.

Keywords: double taxation, treaties, positive integration, negative integration, intermediate solution

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Žunić Kovačević, Nataša, Cross-Border Tax Problems of EU and Third Countries (April 2, 2009). Proceedings of 7th International Conference «Economic Integration, Competition and Cooperation», 2-3 April, 2009, Opatija, University of Rijeka – Faculty of Economics, CD with Full papers , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Michel Aujean
Tax policy for a competitive EU: common tax base and coordination, European Commission
Workshop on EC Law and tax Treaties Posted: 2005-07-05
F Bolkestein
Communication from the Commission to the Council, The European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, The Policy in the European Union -Priorities for the years ahead
EU corporate tax reform: progress and new challenges, opening address at the European Commission Conference on the Company Taxation Posted: 2004
De Graaf , Arnaud
Netherlands Ministry of finance
Workshop on EC Law and tax Treaties Posted: 2005-07-05
Marjaana Helminen
Tax Treaties between Member States, Workshop on EC Law and tax Treaties Posted: 2005-07-05
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Bruno Bonizzi , Christina Laskaridis , Jan Toporowski
EU Development Policy and the Promotion of the Financial Sector
FESSUD Working Paper Series, No 120 · 49 Pages · Posted: 26 Jan 2019 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
803
RANK
826,938
1 Citations
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies