Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Sommers are Winters: Do Blanks Denote Revocability?

Tax Notes, Vol. 138, No. 12, 2013

4 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: March 25, 2013

Abstract

In Sommers, ruling on both parties’ motions for partial summary judgment, the Tax Court dealt with claims of issue preclusion and collateral estoppel, equitable apportionment, the completion of gifts of limited liability company interests, and retained powers that would cause estate tax inclusion. Two aspects of Sommers held particular interest for me. The first is that the parties appear to be arguing their opponent’s conventional position. The second is that the court grappled with whether the blanks left in the gift documents were immaterial to gift completion; however, the court did not address whether the decedent’s completed gifts qualified for the annual exclusion or whether their value was unascertainable at the time of the gifts for any donee to obtain immediate use or possession of the transferred property.

Keywords: equitable apportionment, LLC, gift completion, defined value clause, issue preclusion, collateral estoppel, gift tax, estate tax, annual exclusion

JEL Classification: K34, H2, H10, H20, H22, H23, H24, H29

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., When Sommers are Winters: Do Blanks Denote Revocability? (March 25, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 138, No. 12, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Wandry V Commissioner , T C Memo
, p. 2012 - 88
Petter V Estate Of , T C Commissioner , Memo
See Gerzog, ''Not All Defined Value Clauses Are Equal Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,233
RANK
568,179
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies