Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effective Value Added Tax: An Imperative for Wealth Creation in Nigeria

Posted: 26 Mar 2013

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

D.O. Gbegi

Kogi State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 12, 2013

Abstract

This study aimed at evaluating the influence of revenue generated through Value Added Tax (VAT) on wealth creation in Nigeria. In an effort to accomplish this objective, secondary data were generated from Federal Bureau for Statistics which were analysed with the aid of table and simple percentages while the hypotheses formulated were tested using Product Moment Correlation Coefficient and Student T-test. The findings revealed that revenue generated through VAT has a significant effort on total tax revenue in Nigeria. However, it has been recommended among others that Federal Inland Revenue Service should pay attention to the informal sector of the economy by creating VAT offices at the local communities so as to generate more revenue and to fully achieve the objectives of wealth creation through VAT. Equally there should be constant review of existing laws every four months as done in the United States of America and other advanced economies to create room for flexibility in line with the changing economic circumstances.

Keywords: value added tax, revenue, wealth creation, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Gbegi, D.O., Effective Value Added Tax: An Imperative for Wealth Creation in Nigeria (January 12, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,360
RANK
207,517
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies