Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Material Liability of Tax Authorities for Unlawful Actions When Implementing Tax Administration

The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 3, March 2012

18 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Viacheslav Kizilov

Scientific and Practical Magazine 'The Topical Issues of Public Law'

Date Written: March 13, 2012

Abstract

Examines the norms of current Russian legislation with a view of consolidating in them some provisions, which in practice let to implement its mechanism of bringing of tax authorities to material liability for unlawful actions of theirs officials that have been performed during the tax administration and which have caused material damage to the subject of tax administration. Here are considered legally meaningful actions of officials of the tax authorities, which are committed during the period of tax administration and contain potential delinquency.

Keywords: tax authorities, tax administration, unlawful actions of tax authorities, material liability of tax authorities

Suggested Citation:

Kizilov, Viacheslav, Material Liability of Tax Authorities for Unlawful Actions When Implementing Tax Administration (March 13, 2012). The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 3, March 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A rb itratio n an d P ro ced u ral C ode of the RF No. 95-FL
Crossref
G System , A R A N T
M oscow: 2012. 2. B udget C ode of th e RF, No. 145-FL of Posted: 1998-07-31
Crossref
G System , A R A N T
Civil C ode of the RF, N o 51-FZ p a rt one of N ovem ber 30 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,149
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies