Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is the Optimal Method to Value a Football Club?

32 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2013

Tom Markham

University of Reading - ICMA Centre

Date Written: March 22, 2013

Abstract

This paper introduces an original multivariate model developed to value English Premier League (EPL) clubs. Prior to developing the model, established valuation methods were assessed for their accuracy in estimating an EPL club’s worth. Of these models, three were general company valuation techniques: market capitalisation, discounted cash flow and bankruptcy values; and three were contemporary football industry valuation models: revenue multiples, Forbes ‘Most Valuable Soccer Teams’ and broker values. For comparison purposes the models were calculated for a sample period of nine seasons between the 2003/04 and 2011/12 seasons. Estimated valuations were also compared to actual club sale transaction prices during the same period. Comparative results show the multivariate model introduced in the paper is the only universally applicable and reliable methodology to value EPL clubs of the methods evaluated.

Keywords: valuation, value, football, soccer, sports, franchise, business, finance

JEL Classification: G32, L83

Suggested Citation:

Markham, Tom, What is the Optimal Method to Value a Football Club? (March 22, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238265 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
J Peters
Bolton to put its future in hands of wealthy investor
Financial Times , volume 15 Posted: 2003-12-22
D , L Kern , W
The Economic Determinants of Professional Sports Franchise Values
Journal of Sports Economics , volume 5 , p. 51 - 66 Posted: 2004
E Amir , G Livne
Accounting, valuation and duration of football player contracts
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 32 , p. 549 - 586 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Bell , Brooks , D Matthews , C Sutcliffe
Over the moon or as sick as a parrot? The effects of football results on a club's share price
Applied Economics , volume 44 , p. 3435 - 3452 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
8,982
ABSTRACT VIEWS
31,248
RANK
1,543
5 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies