Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Study of the Implementation in the United States of the Model Law on Cross Border Insolvency

American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , 2013

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 402

U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 405

24 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Jay Lawrence Westbrook

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 16, 2012

Abstract

International insolvency proceedings uniquely require coordination among a number of national courts to preserve the value of multinational corporations that have become financially distressed. The Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency provides a structure for recognition of foreign insolvency proceedings and the granting of needed relief in aid of foreign courts. This article reports data from an empirical study all of the cases filed in the United States under the Model Law. Among other things, the data refute the notion that the United States is not welcoming to foreign petitioners; on the contrary, the overwhelming majority of petitions have led to relief for the foreign petitioners, although the reception of petitions from ― letter box jurisdictions has been less friendly. The article also provides an analytical review of American case law relating to important aspects of the Model Law.

Keywords: insolvency, bankruptcy, model law, cross-border, empirical, COMI, international

Suggested Citation:

Westbrook, Jay L., An Empirical Study of the Implementation in the United States of the Model Law on Cross Border Insolvency (October 16, 2012). American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , 2013, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 402, U of Texas Law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 405, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,767
RANK
172,047
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies