Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Possible Effects of the Introduction of IFRS for Small and Medium-Sized Entities

11 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Michele Bertoni

University of Trieste - Department of Economics, Business, Mathematics and Statistics

Bruno De Rosa

University of Trieste - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: March 24, 2013

Abstract

In 2006 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued a draft version of the International Financial Reporting Standards for Small and Medium-Sized Entities (IFRS for SMEs), marking an important milestone in the process of accounting harmonization. It is a sign, in fact, that the effects of globalization have reached not only large companies, but also small and medium entities. Many SMEs are already characterized by a high level of internationalization, being greatly influenced by external and international factors. Their reporting framework, however, is strictly rooted in country-specific regulations, and the attempts of harmonizing reporting rules for SMEs within the EU pale in comparison to the results obtained for the financial statements of listed companies. However, there is a need for transparency and comparability in financial reporting for SMEs too, given also the important role played by small and medium-sized entities in most European economies. For example, the presence of SMEs in the Italian context is so important that, in the past, some authors have considered the "dwarfism" of the Italian companies to be an economic advantage. In this paper, we consider the implications of the prospective application of IFRS by European SMEs, highlighting the pros and cons of introducing a differential reporting system for this category of firms. The complications that will be probably introduced in the existing regulatory framework with the adoption of IFRS for SMEs are analyzed, placing an emphasis on the function played by the financial statements of unlisted companies. We argue that the coexistence of a two or even three-tiered structure of accounting regulation could lead to confusion in the users and could also increase the costs of financial reporting for the preparers. Finally, we comment on the decision of the IASB, instead of incorporating specific application criteria in the new standards, to let the single States that are going to implement them to establish the qualitative and quantitative criteria that need to be fulfilled in order to apply the IFRS for SMEs.

Keywords: IFRS, small and medium-sized entities, accounting harmonization

Suggested Citation:

Bertoni, Michele and De Rosa, Bruno, An Analysis of the Possible Effects of the Introduction of IFRS for Small and Medium-Sized Entities (March 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2238644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E Bartelsman , S Scarpetta , F Schivardi
Comparative Analysis of Firm Demographics and Survival: Micro-Level Evidence for the OECD Countries
Economics Department Working Papers , issue 348
M Bertoni , S Cristea , B De Rosa
Possible effects of the IFRS application by the Italian SMEs , p. 159 - 175 Posted: 2006-09
A N Berger , G F Udell
A More Complete Conceptual Framework for SME Finance
World Bank Conference on Small and Medium Enterprises: Overcoming Growth Constraints , p. 14 - 15 Posted: 2004-10
S Brusco , S Paba
Per una storia dei distretti industriali italiani dal secondo dopoguerra agli anni novanta
Storia del capitalismo italiano dal dopoguerra ad oggi Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
547
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,890
RANK
116,175
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies