Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Boards, Auditors, Attorneys and Compliance with Mandatory SEC Disclosure Rules

Managerial & Decision Economics, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013 Last revised: 16 May 2013

Preeti Choudhary

University of Arizona, Eller College of Management

Jason D. Schloetzer

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Jason Sturgess

Queen Mary University of London

Date Written: April 19, 2013

Abstract

We survey the empirical literature on the determinants of firms’ compliance with mandatory SEC disclosure rules. We begin with a discussion of the role of boards of directors, public accounting firms, and corporate attorneys in the preparation and review of mandatory disclosures. We then organize current research into three broad types of variation in compliance: completeness, timeliness, and readability. Our review highlights three interesting areas for future research: (1) studies that examine the relations between completeness, timeliness, and readability within the same research design, (2) studies that assess whether boards of directors, public accounting firms, and corporate attorneys view disclosure compliance as a general firm policy, and (3) studies that investigate the influence of corporate attorneys on mandatory disclosure, as well as studies of disclosure issues that require collaboration between auditors and corporate attorneys. As a first step to address the latter agenda, we investigate whether corporate attorneys affect disclosure and present evidence that corporate attorney fixed effects matter for mandatory disclosure compliance.

Keywords: mandatory disclosure, compliance, disclosure regulation, corporate attorneys, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G14, G18, K22, M40

Suggested Citation:

Choudhary, Preeti and Schloetzer, Jason D. and Sturgess, Jason, Boards, Auditors, Attorneys and Compliance with Mandatory SEC Disclosure Rules (April 19, 2013). Managerial & Decision Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,914
RANK
288,883
1 Citations
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies