Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Violation of Tax Control Procedures by Employees of the Federal Tax Service

The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 9, September 2012

22 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2013

Viacheslav Kizilov

Scientific and Practical Magazine 'The Topical Issues of Public Law'

Date Written: September 4, 2012

Abstract

In the context of established by the tax legislation procedures of tax control here are discussed possible and having a place to practice offences committed by officials of tax bodies in the implementation of these procedures, and are evaluated their administrative and legal misbehavior.

Keywords: tax control, tax control procedures, offences of tax bodies' officials, administrative and legal delinquency of tax bodies' officials, violation the rights of taxpayers

Suggested Citation:

Kizilov, Viacheslav, Violation of Tax Control Procedures by Employees of the Federal Tax Service (September 4, 2012). The Topical Issues of Public Law, No. 9, September 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2238528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Сойе оп А й т 1тз{га{гуе Оййепсез ой {Ье Кизз^ап РейегаНоп, N0. 195-РЬ, йгот ^есетЬе^ 30 Posted: 2001
Сакаыт Зузьет
Мозсош: 2012. 2. Тах Сойе ой {Ье Кизз^ап РейегаНоп, раг{ опе, N0. 146-РЬ йгот |и1у 31, 1998 [Nа1одоVу^ койекз Коззг)'зко] Рейега{зп. СЬаз{' регуа)'а о{ 31 г)и1)а Posted: 1998
Сакаыт Зузьет
Posted: 2012
Crossref
Рейега1 1аш N0. 77-РЬ йгот Арп1 14 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,096
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies