Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comprehensive Income, Fair Value, and Conservatism: A Conceptual Framework for Reporting Financial Performance

5th International Conference «Economic Integration, competition and cooperation», Croatia, Opatija, 2005.

14 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2013 Last revised: 4 May 2013

Michele Bertoni

University of Trieste - Department of Economics, Business, Mathematics and Statistics

Bruno De Rosa

University of Trieste - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: March 25, 2013

Abstract

The introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards, mandatory for all EU listed companies from 2005 onwards, has proven to be a challenge for preparers and academicians alike, given the Standards’ emphasis on fair value as a means to improve the true and fair representation of the financial position and performance of a firm. The aim of this paper is to provide a conceptual framework for explaining the choices made by the International Accounting Standards Board in setting the rules for measuring firms’ financial performance, with emphasis on the accounting literature and tradition of continental European countries, where the respect of the conservatism principle is generally considered paramount. The paper, after describing the theoretical background of both historical cost and current value accounting, and their traditional contraposition, will examine the problems arising from the introduction of a mixed model of accounting (endorsed by the IASB) in a cultural and legal framework strongly oriented towards conservatism. We suggest that some aspects of the current IASB model denote internal inconsistency and we therefore advocate for the introduction of comprehensive income in the IASB reporting framework.

Keywords: fair value accounting, conservatism, accounting harmonization, comprehensive income, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Bertoni, Michele and De Rosa, Bruno, Comprehensive Income, Fair Value, and Conservatism: A Conceptual Framework for Reporting Financial Performance (March 25, 2013). 5th International Conference «Economic Integration, competition and cooperation», Croatia, Opatija, 2005., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2239303 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2239303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
P Bakker , E G Pringle
Better Business Decisions through the Use of Current Value Information
Current Value Accounting Posted: 1977
P W Bell , R H Parker , G C Harcourt
Price changes and income measurement
Readings in the concept and measurement of income Posted: 1969
J Blake , O Amat
European Accounting Posted: 1993
Crossref
M T Bradshaw , R G Sloan
GAAP versus The Street: An Empirical Assessment of Two Alternative Definitions of Earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 66 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Nevine El Tawy , Tony Tollington
Differentiating Brand Assets from Goodwill Assets: The Artefact Based Approach to the Accounting Recognition of Marketing Related Assets
(CAAA) 2008 Annual Conference Paper · 40 Pages · Posted: 4 Jan 2008 · Last revised: 19 Jun 2008 · Downloads: 290
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maryam Yousefi Nejad , Azlina Ahmad , Y.Y. Abdul Talib , S. Ishak , A. Ahmi , F.H. Rusly , R.H. Raja Mohd Ali , M.H. Mohd Sharif , D. Abdul Kadir
Value Relevance of available-for-sale financial instruments (AFS) and revaluation surplus of PPE (REV) components of other comprehensive income
SHS Web of Conferences , volume 34 , p. 03004 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Muhammad Nurul Houqe , Reza M. Monem , Peter Clarkson
Understanding IFRS Adoption: A Review of Current Debate and Consequences
FIRN Research Paper · 32 Pages · Posted: 16 May 2013 · Downloads: 846
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,326
RANK
38,205
3 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Does Regulatory Harmonization Increase Bilateral Asset Holdings?

By Jonas Vlachos

Financial Regulatory Harmonization and the Globalization of Finance

By Cally Jordan and Giovanni Majnoni

Financial Regulatory Harmonization and the Globalization of Finance

By Cally Jordan and Giovanni Majnoni

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies