Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Non-Expert Agency: Using the SEC to Regulate Partisan Politics

Forthcoming, 3 Harv. Bus. L. Rev. (2013)

29 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2013

Bradley A. Smith

Capital University Law School

Allen Dickerson

Center for Competitive Politics

Date Written: March 26, 2013

Abstract

Over the past 15 years advocates of campaign finance reform, frustrated by the structure and design of the Federal Election Commission, have attempted to offload the duties of campaign finance regulation to other federal agencies, most notably the Internal Revenue Service but also the Federal Communications Commission and, most recently, the Securities Exchange Commission.

We respond specifically to Professors Lucian A. Bebchuk & Robert J. Jackson, Jr., Shining Light on Corporate Political Spending, 101 Geo. L. J. 923 (2013), who urge the SEC to adopt compulsory disclosure rules to govern corporate political activity. We argue that whatever the theoretical merits of this position, the reality is that the current pressure on the SEC to take adopt new compulsory disclosure laws is a direct result of a desire to use the SEC to regulate not corporate governance or the world of investment and trading, but campaign finance. As a result, we suggest that any rules adopted are likely to be ill-advised and co-opted in the enforcement process. At the core of the theory of the independent agency is that it will develop a unique technical competence and will operate within that sphere of expertise. Pressure on the SEC (or other agencies) to regulate campaign finance takes these agencies out of their area of professional expertise and competence, and is thus likely to result in bad law, damage to institutional reputation, and a distraction from the agency’s core mission.

Keywords: campaign finance, disclosure, Bebchuk, shining light, citizens united, SEC, DEC

JEL Classification: K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Bradley A. and Dickerson, Allen, The Non-Expert Agency: Using the SEC to Regulate Partisan Politics (March 26, 2013). Forthcoming, 3 Harv. Bus. L. Rev. (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2239987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Laurence Tribe
What Should Congress Do About Citizens United?, SCOTUSblog , p. 217 - 253 Posted: 2010-01-24
Erin Mershon, Pelosi: If Democrats Win the House, I'll Pass Jobs Bill, DISCLOSE Act
National Journal Posted: 2012-09-20
Adam Kline
Republicans can show true bipartisanship by signing on to overturn Citizens United Posted: 2013-01-24
Crossref
See Jeff Patch &amp; Stephen , M Hoersting
Federal Election Commission Deadlocks on Greater '12 Donor Disclosure Posted: 2011-06-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,645
RANK
418,383
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies