Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Defending Patagonia: Mergers & Acquisitions with Benefit Corporations

Hastings Business Law Journal, Vol. 9, No. 485, 2013

33 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2013 Last revised: 20 Jul 2013

J. Haskell Murray

Belmont University - College of Business Administration; Belmont University - Massey School of Business

Date Written: March 28, 2013

Abstract

Yvon Chouinard, founder of Patagonia, stated that "benefit corporation legislation creates the legal framework to enable mission-driven companies like Patagonia to stay mission-driven through succession, capital raises, and even changes in ownership." This article uses Patagonia, one of the most visible benefit corporations, in the article’s examination of Chouinard’s claim and in the article’s exploration of issues surrounding benefit corporations in the mergers and acquisitions context.

Of special interest are the seminal Delaware cases of Unocal and Revlon, and how, if at all, the tests created by those cases should be applied to benefit corporations. This article concludes that the Unocal test could be used to evaluate takeover defenses erected by benefit corporations, but argues that the test should be modified to more clearly allow directors to protect the mission of their benefit corporation, even if the mission "openly eschews shareholder wealth maximization." A more difficult issue arises when the break-up or sale of a benefit corporation becomes inevitable and the benefit corporation, incorporated in a state that follows Delaware law, enters "Revlon-mode." To provide a practical corporate governance framework, this article concludes that Revlon could remain relevant, within its narrow confines, for benefit corporations that are incorporated in states following Delaware law, but proposes statutory amendments requiring a partial-asset lock and an annual charitable giving floor to ensure public benefit.

Keywords: social enterprise, social entrepreneurship, social business, B Lab, benefit corporation, certified B corporation, public benefit corporation, hostile takeover, constituency statute, deals, impact investing, general public benefit

JEL Classification: D60, D64, G34, K1, K10, K20, L21, L33, P31

Suggested Citation:

Murray, J. Haskell, Defending Patagonia: Mergers & Acquisitions with Benefit Corporations (March 28, 2013). Hastings Business Law Journal, Vol. 9, No. 485, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2240885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
San Francisco provides preferences in government contracting to California benefit corporations)
City of Philadelphia: Tax Credits & Other Incentives, CITY OF PHILADELPHIA BUSINESS SERVICES, business.phila.gov/pages/taxcreditsotherincentives. aspx?stage=start&type=all%20business%20types&section=financing%20%26%20incentives&bs pcontentlistitem=tax%20credits,%20grants%20%26%20other%20incentives (last visited Posted: 2012
See Supra Part , Iii; Under Ebay V , Newark
Benefit corporations, however, exist to pursue a "general public benefit" and any stated "specific public benefit" of the entity. 150. See supra Part IV. But see Steven J. Haymore, Note, Public(ly Oriented) Companies: B Corporations and the Delaware Stakeholder Provision Dilemma , p. 34 - 35 Posted: 2010
Model Benefit Corp. Legislation § , volume 301
Crossref
Murray
Benefit Corporations: State Statute Comparison Chart, supra note 56. Spring 2013 DEFENDING PATAGONIA 515
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,076
RANK
66,006
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies