Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
E-Verify Can Stop Refund Fraud

Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 13-6

10 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2013 Last revised: 11 Apr 2013

Richard Thompson Ainsworth

NYU - Graduate Tax Program; Boston University - School of Law

Andrew Shact

Boston University - School of Law

Date Written: March 27, 2013

Abstract

Two issues in the current Washington debates need to be linked. E-Verify, the Internet-based database that allows employers to verify an employee’s work eligibility that is at the center of the immigration debate, is the ideal tool for stopping tax refund fraud. All that is needed is a digital signature of the E-Verify result, and the mandatory inscription of this signature on tax documents to make them self-authenticating.

The central features of this proposal have been made before. The technology it requires is tried and proven. The processes and procedure it advocates are in place and effectively deployed in foreign jurisdictions, notably in VAT jurisdictions enforcing against VAT fraud.

The heart of this linkage (the E-Verify/refund fraud linkage) is numerical. At least $5.2 billion in annual revenues are being lost through refund fraud – the cost for businesses to implement a fully mandated E-Verify system is $2.7 billion. If E-Verify solves refund fraud, there are funds available for a business credit with a considerable amount of money left over.

The $5.2 billion figure comes from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) who found that in Processing Year 2011, identity theft cost the US taxpayer in excess of $5.2 billion in undetected fraudulent tax refunds, and estimated $21 billion in losses over five years. The $2.7 billion figure comes from a Bloomberg Report for the same time period indicating that a fully mandated E-Verify system for all employers would cost $2.7 billion (almost all of it in training expenses related to system implementation and worker appeals).

Keywords: E-Verify, Refund fraud, Secure tax documents, Encryption, Digital signature

JEL Classification: H29, K14, K19, K34, K39, K42, K49

Suggested Citation:

Ainsworth, Richard Thompson and Shact, Andrew, E-Verify Can Stop Refund Fraud (March 27, 2013). Boston Univ. School of Law, Law and Economics Research Paper No. 13-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2240462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2240462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
459,276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies