Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming the Taxation of Retirement Income

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 327-366, 2012

Illinois Program in Law, Behavior and Social Science Paper No. LBSS13-23

Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 13-51

41 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2013 Last revised: 29 Jul 2013

Richard L. Kaplan

University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Legal and financial analyses abound about various means of saving for retirement and the tax advantages that they present, but very little attention has been paid to how retirement income is generated and the tax consequences that pertain to its generation. This article fills that void by examining the three major sources of retirement income: Social Security, employment-based retirement plans, and personal savings. For each of these sources, this article considers how retirement income is generated, sets forth the applicable federal income tax treatment, and proposes reforms to make the pertinent tax rules more sensible. Among its recommendations are simplifying how Social Security retirement benefits are taxed, bifurcating defined contribution plan withdrawals into capital gains and ordinary income components, repealing certain exceptions to the early distribution penalty, reducing the delayed distribution penalty and adjusting the age at which it is triggered, and changing the residential gain exclusion to avoid unanticipated problems with reverse mortgages.

Keywords: Social Security, income taxation, pensions, defined contribution plans, minimum required distributions annuities, principal residence

Suggested Citation:

Kaplan, Richard L., Reforming the Taxation of Retirement Income (2012). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 327-366, 2012, Illinois Program in Law, Behavior and Social Science Paper No. LBSS13-23, Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 13-51, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2240494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Lawrence A See Generally , Melissa C Frolik &amp; , Brown
ADVISING THE ELDERLY OR DISABLED CLIENT ¶16.08
John J Regan , Rebecca C Morgan &amp; , David M English , Tax , Estate &amp; Financial , Planning For , Elderly ¶12
Posted: 2011
Ken Scholen , Retirement , On , House
CASHING IN ON YOUR HOME WITH A "REVERSE" MORTGAGE Posted: 1991
Jean Reilly
Reverse Mortgages: Backing into the Future , volume 5
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,088
RANK
185,789
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Illinois College of Law Program in Law, Behavior & Social Science Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies