Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Series LLCs: What Happens When One Series Fails? Key Considerations and Issues

Business Law Today, Feb. 2013, p. 1-4.

U of Maryland Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-17

5 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2013

Michelle M. Harner

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law

Jennifer Ivey-Crickenberger

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law

Tae Kim

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2013

Abstract

Entity choice law is constantly evolving and innovating. The series LLC form is one such example. Although the form provides governance and operational flexibility and efficiencies, the law governing the form is still developing. As such, uncertainties linger, particularly in the context of a financially distressed or insolvent series. This article explores many of the issues that arise when a master LLC or one of its series experiences financial distress and contemplates a bankruptcy filing. It also identifies strategies for parties to potentially mitigate certain of these issues in the planning stage. The article concludes by suggesting parties using the series LLC form consider its overall impact on the business plan and objectives, including potential negative consequences on the rights and remedies of owners and certain creditors and on the cost of capital.

This information or any portion thereof may not be copied or disseminated in any form or my any means or downloaded or stored in an electronic database or retrieval system with the express written consent of the American Bar Association. Reproduced with permission of the American Bar Association.

Keywords: Limited Liability Company, financial distress, reflief, U.S. Bankruptcy Code

Suggested Citation:

Harner, Michelle M. and Ivey-Crickenberger, Jennifer and Kim, Tae, Series LLCs: What Happens When One Series Fails? Key Considerations and Issues (February 1, 2013). Business Law Today, Feb. 2013, p. 1-4., U of Maryland Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2240268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,815
RANK
451,566
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies