Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Different Standards of Judicial Review Affect the Gains of Minority Shareholders in Freeze-Out Transactions? A Re-Examination of Siliconix

Harvard Business Law Review, Volume 3, Issue 2

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 154

40 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2013 Last revised: 19 Feb 2015

Fernan Restrepo

UCLA School of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

Freeze-out transactions have been subject to different standards of judicial review in Delaware since 2001, when the chancery court, in In re Siliconix Inc. Shareholders Litigation, held that, unlike merger freeze-outs, tender offer freeze-outs were not subject to “entire fairness review”. This dichotomy, in turn, gave rise to a tension in the literature regarding the potential impact of Siliconix, as well as the treatment that freeze-outs should receive. While some defended the regime established by Siliconix, others argued for doctrinal convergence through a universal application of entire fairness, and still others proposed alternative variations of convergence based on how the negotiation process is conducted. The Delaware Chancery Court itself, in fact, subsequently made a partial step toward convergence by narrowing the scope of its precedent, as reflected in In re CNX Gas Corporation Shareholders Litigation. The empirical evidence on the effect of Siliconix (and, therefore, on the practical relevance of different standards of judicial review), however, is limited. In particular, in “Post-Siliconix freeze-outs: Theory and Evidence,” Guhan Subramanian found that minority shareholders obtain lower cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) in tender offer freeze-outs relative to merger freeze-outs, and, based on this finding, Subramanian advocates for doctrinal convergence. That article, however, does not formally examine whether Siliconix generated a structural change in relative CARs in both transactional forms and, therefore, whether the differences in outcomes are actually attributable to the disparity in standards of judicial review. The purpose of this work is, therefore, to fill this gap in the literature. To this end, this work uses a difference-in-differences approach, which compares changes over time (before and after Siliconix) between CARs in tender offers (the treatment group) and CARs in statutory mergers (the control group). As further discussed in the text, the results seem to suggest, in line with Subramanian’s intuition, that Siliconix actually had at least some negative effect on CARs in tender offers, since the estimator of difference-in-differences is consistently negative and generally significant. Based on the results, this work discusses specific policy implications, particularly in terms of regulatory convergence.

JEL Classification: K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Restrepo, Fernan, Do Different Standards of Judicial Review Affect the Gains of Minority Shareholders in Freeze-Out Transactions? A Re-Examination of Siliconix (August 1, 2013). Harvard Business Law Review, Volume 3, Issue 2, Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 154, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2242487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2242487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
This point is illustrated by the evidence on the effects of the enactment of the provisions in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and NASDAQ listing rules that require a fraction of the board of directors to be independent. Specifically, showing that this requirement increased board liability insurance and directors' fees, see Linck , p. 3287 - 3328
These opportunity costs are illustrated by the evidence showing no significant positive effects (or even negative effects) resulting from the enactment of Sarbanes-Oxley and the NYSE and NASDAQ listing rules requiring independent boards, as well as by the evidence on the negative market reaction to the passage of Sarbanes-Oxley. In particular, showing no correlation or even a negative correlation between the requirement of independent boards imposed on public firms and operative performance, see
D Barry , N Baysinger &amp; Henry , ; J L Butler , Econ
Corporate Governance and the Board of Directors: Performance Effects of Changes in Board Composition
Crossref
& ORG , volume 101 , p. 101 - 125 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Load more
7 Citations
Fernan Restrepo , Guhan Subramanian
The Effect of Delaware Doctrine on Freezeout Structure and Outcomes: Evidence on the Unified Approach
Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 153 · 37 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2013 · Last revised: 18 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 656
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fernan Restrepo
Judicial Deference, Procedural Protections, and Deal Outcomes in Freezeout Transactions: Evidence from the Effect of MFW
Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting 6: 353–394 (2021), · 57 Pages · Posted: 1 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 10 Feb 2023 · Downloads: 618
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Beni Lauterbach , Evgeny Lyandres , Yevgeny Mugerman , Barak Yarkoni
The Choice Between Various Freeze-out Procedures and its Consequences
European Corporate Governance Institute – Finance Working Paper No. 735/2021, · 55 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 170
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jianfeng Hu , Kelvin F.K. Low , Wei Zhang
The Value of Fiduciary Duties: Evidence from En Bloc Sales in Singapore
International Review of Law and Economics, Forthcoming · 50 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 18 Oct 2022 · Downloads: 258
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,012
RANK
190,991
7 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Examining Data Points in Minority Buy-Outs: A Practitioners' Report

By Suneela Jain, Ethan Klingsberg, ...

The Effect of Delaware Doctrine on Freezeout Structure and Outcomes: Evidence on the Unified Approach

By Fernan Restrepo and Guhan Subramanian

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies