Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends and Players in Tax Policy in the Netherlands

Posted: 1 Apr 2013 Last revised: 23 Aug 2014

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: March 30, 2013

Abstract

Paper for the Rust Conference July 2013 ‘Trends and Players in Tax Policy’ organized by Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law Vienna WU Global Tax Policy Center together with the Research Council of Norway. It discusses trends in tax policy in the Netherlands as from 2000 (personal income taxes, corporate income taxes, other business taxes, value added tax, excises, recurrent taxes on capital, non-recurrent taxes on capital, compulsory social security contributions paid to government and environmental taxes), main drivers of tax reforms since 2001, drafting and reviewing tax legislation and regulations, building up tax expertise, the changing relationship between tax administrations and taxpayers, major players in tax policy, tax policy in the global economy and good governance.

Keywords: Tax reform, the Netherlands, income tax

JEL Classification: K34, E62, H2

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, Trends and Players in Tax Policy in the Netherlands (March 30, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2242012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2242012
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies