Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Magnifying Deterrence by Prosecuting Professionals

89 Ind. L.J. ___ (2014) Forthcoming

University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-17

54 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2013 Last revised: 14 May 2013

Scott A. Schumacher

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2013

Abstract

This article examines the recent series of criminal prosecutions against tax professionals and offshore bankers. These criminal cases, brought against the largest Swiss bank (UBS), the oldest Swiss bank (Wegelin), one of the largest accounting firms in the world (KPMG), as well as numerous lawyers and accountants, was a dramatic shift for the U.S. Department of Justice. After decades of tolerating abusive tax shelters and tax haven banks, the Government changed its policy. However, rather than indicting the individuals and corporations who invested in tax shelters or hid money in offshore accounts, the Justice Department indicted the lawyers, accountants, and bankers who advised them. This article will analyze those prosecutions from a theoretical, historical, and practical perspective, and will examine the impact the new prosecution policy will have on the legal professional, the tax system, and international relations.

This is the first article to examine these issues, and it is a combination of my prior scholarship involving tax shelters and criminal tax matters, including my casebook TAX CRIMES. The article will be of great interest to anyone teaching or practicing in the areas of taxation, criminal law, and criminal theory. It will also appeal to those interested in the role of lawyers and other professionals within the legal system. It therefore should have wide appeal amongst faculty readers, as well as practitioners and policy-makers.

Keywords: Tax havens, tax shelters, prosecuting professionals, tax crimes, criminal theory

JEL Classification: H26, H25, K14, K34

Suggested Citation:

Schumacher, Scott A., Magnifying Deterrence by Prosecuting Professionals (March 1, 2013). 89 Ind. L.J. ___ (2014) Forthcoming, University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2243093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
See generally Dharmapala, supra note 48 , p. 663 - 64
Lynnley Browning
Thinking Outside the (Tax) Treaty
The Netherlands, the New Tax Shelter Hot Spot , volume 717 Posted: 2007-02-04
E G See , Marcus Hoy
Denmark Facing New Criticism as Tax Evasion "Transit Station
154 DAILY TAX REP. (BNA) , issue 5 Posted: 2009-08-17
E G See , Lynnley Browning
Critics Call Delaware a Tax Haven
Finance and Economics: Haven Hypocrisy, The G20 and Tax , volume 1 Posted: 2009-03-26
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
445
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,715
RANK
149,087
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies