Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auer/Seminole Rock Deference in the Tax Court

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 11, 2013, Forthcoming

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 630

55 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2013

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2013

Abstract

Deference doctrines involve the extent to which courts, in their interpretation of statutes and regulations, should be influenced by how the agencies charged with administering these authorities construe them. Deference doctrine has received enormous attention in the case law and the commentary during the past three decades, both in tax and in administrative law.

In Gonzales v. Oregon, the Supreme Court identified three strands of deference doctrine: deference under Chevron, deference under Skidmore/Mead, and deference under Auer/Seminole Rock (hereafter “ASR”). The first and second strands in tax have been well rehearsed.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Auer/Seminole Rock Deference in the Tax Court (April 2, 2013). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Vol. 11, 2013, Forthcoming, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 630, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2243628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E G See , Antonin Scalia
A MATTER OF INTERPRETATION: FEDERAL COURTS AND THE LAW , p. 16 - 17 Posted: 1997
Steve R Johnson
The Two Kinds of Legislative Intent Posted: 2009
William Blackstone
COMMENTARIES 58
Crossref
E G
Bread Political Action Comm , volume 582 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,157
RANK
325,828
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies