Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Company Characteristics on Web-Based Business Reporting in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 21-46

Posted: 3 Apr 2013

Manjinder Singh Saini

Independent

Date Written: April 2, 2013

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to analyze the disclosure practices through web by Indian companies and investigate empirically some company characteristics as determinants of such practices. Using a 56-item index, content analysis of websites was performed for 181 largest Indian-listed companies. Further, the study employs univariate analysis to examine the effect of each company characteristics on the level of information disclosed on the web. The study revealed that 181 companies had websites, which represents 91% of total sample companies. All 181 companies are making use of the web for dissemination of their business information, but there is a great deal of variation in the frequency with which different items are disclosed on websites. The results of univariate regression analysis show that firm size and ownership dispersion are significantly and positively associated with the level of corporate disclosure through web. This investigation concerns a country with an emerging market, India. Thus, the results of this study have important implications for regulators and enforcement bodies, companies, practising chartered accountants, investors, researchers and academicians.

Suggested Citation:

Saini, Manjinder Singh, Impact of Company Characteristics on Web-Based Business Reporting in India (April 2, 2013). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 21-46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2243528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies