Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Perceptual Study of the Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards for Enhancing Accounting Financial Transparency

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 63-79

Posted: 7 Apr 2013

Pinky Dholakia

Sunshine Group of Institutions

Date Written: April 4, 2013

Abstract

A financial reporting system supported by strong governance, high quality standards and firm regulatory framework is the key to economic development. Indeed, sound financial reporting standards underline the trust that investors place in financial reporting information and thus play an important role in contributing to the economic development of a country. This leads us to study the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for rapid growth of international trade and internationalization of firms. The IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB) is increasingly being recognized as Global Reporting Standards. To date, there has been limited research conducted into the effects/implications of IFRS adoption. Thus, the present study aims to identify and evaluate the materiality of the impact of IFRS adoption on companies’ financial position and performance, and examine individual standards and their effect on shareholders’ equity. A model has been proposed to find out the views of Chartered Accountants (CA), Company Secretaries (CS), Postgraduates, Doctorates and ICWA, who are mainly concerned with the standards so that their acceptability towards IFRS can be assessed.

Suggested Citation:

Dholakia, Pinky, A Perceptual Study of the Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards for Enhancing Accounting Financial Transparency (April 4, 2013). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 63-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2244717
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies