Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timeliness of Financial Reporting: An Empirical Legal Study of Russian Banks

Hastings Business Law Journal, Vol. 9, No. 2, p. 303, Winter 2013

24 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2013

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Yeomin Yoon

Seton Hall University - W. Paul Stillman School of Business

Thomas J. Tarangelo

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Date Written: April 3, 2013

Abstract

The timeliness of financial reporting has been an important topic in the accounting literature for decades. There is a tradeoff between the timeliness of reporting and the value of the information being reported. Prior to the advent of the internet, reporting had to be done using print media. However, now that many companies post their annual and quarterly reports on the internet, it is possible to report in a more timely fashion than has previously been possible. The problem is that companies in some countries do not make full use of this disclosure tool. They sometimes take many months to make the information available to the general public. The present empirical legal study examines the timeliness of financial reporting in the Russian banking sector and compares it to the SEC benchmark.

Keywords: timeliness, financial reporting, Russia, banks, empirical legal studies, accounting, IFRS, disclosure, corporate governance

JEL Classification: F3, G14, G18, G21, G28, G3, K22, M4, O16, O52, P34

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W. and Yoon, Yeomin and Tarangelo, Thomas J., The Timeliness of Financial Reporting: An Empirical Legal Study of Russian Banks (April 3, 2013). Hastings Business Law Journal, Vol. 9, No. 2, p. 303, Winter 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2244470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Kenneth J. Sanney , Lawrence J. Trautman , Eric D. Yordy , Tammy Cowart , Destynie Sewell
The Importance of Truth Telling and Trust
37 Journal of Legal Studies Education 7 (Winter 2020) · 38 Pages · Posted: 6 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 2 Nov 2020 · Downloads: 994
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,567
RANK
122,812
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies