Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital Disclosure of Select Pharmaceutical and Software Companies in India

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 47-62

Posted: 4 Apr 2013

Mitali Sen

Indian School of Mines University (ISMU)

Deepa Sharma

Dr. B.C. Roy Engineering College

Date Written: April 4, 2013

Abstract

This paper is an attempt to measure and evaluate voluntary Intellectual Capital (IC) disclosures made by Indian pharmaceutical and software companies in their annual report. The research technique called content analysis has been used to measure the extent and nature of disclosure in 24 sample companies across the two industries with the help of certain criteria identified in the form of 18 IC indicators across three broad categories, viz., structural capital elements, relational capital elements and human capital elements. From the study, it can be inferred that most of the reported IC attributes are expressed in discursive rather than numerical or monetary terms. The IC disclosure made by the sample companies does not adequately fulfil the informational needs of stakeholders, and hence companies need to disclose more meaningful information in their annual reports or in separate IC reports.

Suggested Citation:

Sen, Mitali and Sharma, Deepa, Intellectual Capital Disclosure of Select Pharmaceutical and Software Companies in India (April 4, 2013). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XII, No. 1, January 2013, pp. 47-62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2244716
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,225
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies