Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Jurisdiction to Tax Corporations

54 Boston College Law Review 1613 (2013)

54 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2013 Last revised: 28 Sep 2013

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: April 5, 2013

Abstract

Corporate tax residence is fundamental to our federal income tax system. Whether a corporation is classified as “domestic” or “foreign” for U.S. federal income tax purposes determines the extent of tax jurisdiction the United States has over the corporation and its affiliates. Unfortunately, tax scholars seem to agree that the concept of corporate tax residence is “meaningless.” Underlying this perception are the ideas that corporations cannot have “real” residence because they are imaginary entities and because taxpayers can easily manipulate corporate tax residence tests. Commentators try to deal with the perceived meaninglessness by either trying to identify a normative basis to guide corporate tax residence determination, or by minimizing the relevance of corporate tax residence to the calculation of tax liabilities. This Article argues that both of these approaches are misguided. Instead, this Article suggests a functional approach, under which corporate tax residence models are designed to support the policy purposes of corporate taxation. This Article concludes that the U.S. should reform the way it defines “domestic” corporations for tax purposes by adopting a two-pronged tax residence test: the place where the corporation’s securities are listed for public trading, or the place of the corporation’s central management and control.

Keywords: International Taxation, Corporate Taxation, Tax Jurisdiction, Comparative Taxation, Tax Reform

JEL Classification: H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Jurisdiction to Tax Corporations (April 5, 2013). 54 Boston College Law Review 1613 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2245802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
De Beers Consol , Mines , V Ltd , Howe
) (appeal taken from Eng.). Many regard the De Beers decision as the true birth of the CMC test. See, e.g., McIntyre, supra note 5
Hji Christiana , Panayi
Residence of Companies, supra note 27 , volume 817
H M See , Revenue , Itnm120060-Company Customs , Residence
The Case Law Rule-Central Management and Control, § INTM120060 Posted: 2010
See Omri , Y Marian
The Discursive Failure in Comparative Tax Law, 58 Am
J. Comp. L , volume 415 , p. 432 - 467 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,575
RANK
171,584
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies