Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparing Statement of Cash Flows from Taoist Perspectives

Journal of Business & Management, Vol. 1, No. 2, April 2013

9 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2013

Yu-Je Lee

Takming University of Science and Technology

Jie He

Qing Hai Province, Department of Finance

Mei Wu

National Taiwan University of Science and Technology

Ying Li

Guangzhou Hengyun Enterprises Holding, Ltd.

Ching Chen

Jinan University

Date Written: April 7, 2013

Abstract

The preparation of cash-flow statement under the indirect method involves adjustments of many items. This is a highly complex process prone to errors, due to a lack of philosophical guidance. This paper finds that the concept of natural equilibrium of Chinese Taoism “...is the way of heaven to take from what has in excess in order to make good what is deficient...” can lend intellectual support to the preparation of cash flows statement under the indirect method. This approach will greatly enhance the accuracy of cash flows statement under the indirect method. This paper uses examples to illustrate the process of adjustments in the preparation of cash- flow statement under the indirect method in the context of Taoist philosophy. The results show that the philosophical perspectives of Chinese Taoism can provide strong guidance on these adjustments by achieving both efficiency and efficacy. The assurance of this “win-win” is a testimony to the philosophical contents of Taoism in the context of modern times.

Keywords: philosophical perspectives of Taoism, indirect method, cash flow statement

Suggested Citation:

Lee, Yu-Je and He, Jie and Wu, Mei and Li, Ying and Chen, Ching, Preparing Statement of Cash Flows from Taoist Perspectives (April 7, 2013). Journal of Business & Management, Vol. 1, No. 2, April 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2246497
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
P L Ainsworth
The Information Content of Cash Flow Data: An Empirical Investigation Posted: 1988
G L Allen
An Empirical Investigation of the Complementary Value of a Statement of Cash Flows in A Set of Published Financial Statements Posted: 1985
V Bernard , T Stober
The Nature and Amount of Information in Cash Flows and Accruals
The Accounting Review Posted: 1989-10
A G Charitou
The Information Content of Accrual and Cash Flow Measures: A Cross-Sectional Valuation Study Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,520
RANK
576,212
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies