Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Corporate Risks by Regulating Executive Pay: A Legal and Economic Analysis

Durham Law Review, Vol. 2 No. 1, pp. 43-63, 2012

26 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2013

Horace W.H. Yeung

Leicester Law School

Date Written: April 15, 2012

Abstract

Excessive risk taking due to a flawed remuneration design is widely regarded as the cause of the recent Financial Crisis. This article endeavours to examine the problem from a legal and economic perspective. A remuneration package should reward managers for successfully advancing the interests of their companies/shareholders. The key is to motivate loyalty by tying the monetary returns of the former directly to those of the latter. Despite the existence of different legal strategies, such as directors’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ decision rights, to constrain managers’ opportunistic behaviour, the problem is that shareholders have not been keen to take actions. Essentially some more passive mechanisms such as a reward strategy may be more meaningful in protecting shareholders, which require minimal participation from shareholders. The first part of this article will look at the importance of aligning the interests between shareholders and managers and especially enquire why the shareholders are powerless to protect themselves despite the law has given them the powers to do so. The second part will examine the reward strategy from a legal and economic perspective. How it works and the relevant legal rules are investigated. The third part will enquire why it does or does not make sense to regulate executive pay as a response to various corporate scandals, especially by discussing what has gone wrong. This article points to the conclusion that although the recent outcry for better corporate governance should not be taken lightly, the very basic objective of executive remuneration to attract, retain and motivate the executives should never be forgotten.

Keywords: executive pay, company law, agency problem, corporate risks, law and economics

JEL Classification: A12, G30, K00, K22

Suggested Citation:

Yeung, Horace W.H., Managing Corporate Risks by Regulating Executive Pay: A Legal and Economic Analysis (April 15, 2012). Durham Law Review, Vol. 2 No. 1, pp. 43-63, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2250724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Ibid
Remuneration Principle 12(f): Remuneration structures -retained shares or other instruments
Ibid
Remuneration Principle 12(h): Remuneration structures -performance adjustment, etc
Gerry Dickinson
The Growing Scope of Risk Management' (2002) 23 Company Lawyer 282
London Stock Exchange
Corporate Governance: A Practical Guide Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,782
RANK
340,955
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies