Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structural Impediments to Tax Reform: The Environment as Case Study

14 Florida Tax Review 45 (2013)

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 34

38 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2013

Leo P. Martinez

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

While the goal of any system of taxation is to be fair, however elusive the concept of fairness, there are two kinds of obstacles that impede or affect our ability to be fair. I categorize these two kinds of obstacles as those that resound in politics and those that are structural. This article deals with the structural aspects of how we go about taxing ourselves. The politics of taxation I leave for another day.

Because the United States Internal Revenue Code (the Code) is vast and complicated, I examine the structural problems of taxation in the single context of the Code — the environment — as the vehicle to evaluate the prospects for reform. This focus on a single area is undertaken with two underlying observations. First, the Code is necessarily complex. A focus on a single area is manageable and serves as a useful case study. Second, the problems we all face from a degraded environment allow for the possibility that attention will be paid. The paper will move from the general to the specific, first highlighting the strengths and the weaknesses of the Code, and second, highlighting structural problems that affect tax policy. The aim will be to guide legislators and policymakers toward a sane tax policy.

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Leo P., Structural Impediments to Tax Reform: The Environment as Case Study (2013). 14 Florida Tax Review 45 (2013), UC Hastings Research Paper No. 34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2251487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
One is reminded of the need for Dr. Seuss' fabled "Lorax," who proclaims he "speak[s] for the trees, for the trees have no tongues
DR. SEUSS, THE LORAX , volume 23 Posted: 1971
See Erika Hayasaki
Palin Said Yes to a Road to Nowhere Posted: 2008
Timothy Egan
Built With Steel, Perhaps, but Greased with Pork
A1. 80. Earmark Definition, MERRIAM-WEBSTER ONLINE DICTIONARY Posted: 2004-04-10
See Andrew Woellner
Spending on an Empty Wallet: A Critique of Tax Expenditures and the Current Fiscal Policy , volume 201 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
538,270
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies