Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mixed-Motive/Intent for 'Real' Securities Manipulation

17 IDC Law Review 277 (2013)

60 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2013 Last revised: 6 Oct 2014

Asaf Eckstein

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

Securities manipulation can be made by fictitious trade, usually by using wash sales or matched orders. However, securities manipulation can also be accomplished through "real" transactions.

Over the last three decades, courts in U.S. and Israel have tried to provide clear answer to the question – what turns real transactions into market manipulation? And what if a trader has mixed-motive/intent (manipulative and legitimate motive/intent)?

Whereas the U.S. courts have unanimously decided that an investor may lawfully be convicted only where his transactions were done with the 'sole intent' to affect the price of securities and not for any 'investment purpose', the Israeli courts have provided contradicting answers.

The essay offers a comprehensive research to answer the mix-motive/intent question in the securities context, including a review of definitions that have been suggested to the "real" manipulation, examination of its desirable scope, and analysis of the implementation of the mixed-motive/intent principle in other areas.

At the end, the essay recommends to solve the elusive quest by adopting the "but for" (sine qua non) test according to which in a case of "real" transactions, manipulation should be illegal only where it is made but for the trader's manipulative motive.

Note: Downloadable document is in Hebrew.

Keywords: mixed-motive, manipulation, securities

Suggested Citation:

Eckstein, Asaf, Mixed-Motive/Intent for 'Real' Securities Manipulation (May 1, 2012). 17 IDC Law Review 277 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2252888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2252888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,579
RANK
649,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies