Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critique of In Re Bilski

DePaul Journal of Art, Technology & Intellectual Property Law, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2009

41 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2013

Maayan Perel (Filmar)

Netanya Academic College

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

Under 35 U.S.C. § 101 (“section 101”), patent protection is provided to “whoever invents or discovers any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof . . . .” Industrial age inventions fell easily into at least one of these four statutory categories. Information age inventions, however, complicate the analysis under section 101 and blur the boundaries of its enumerated categories. A common characteristic of these information age inventions, namely software and electronic commerce, is that they are not traditional subjects of patent law. Often times, they are intangible. Hence, in light of their complexity, the Patent Office and the courts struggle to decide whether and to what extent these inventions deserve the protection of the Patent Act.

In 1998, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit radically changed the landscape regarding software and business method patents. Its State Street decision opened the floodgates to business method and software-related claims. Indeed, according to the World Intellectual Property Organization’s statistical report from 2008, the annual growth of patent filings in the field of computer technology between 2001 and 2005 was 5.3%, the highest compared to other fields of technology. This great increase in filings of software-related patents, however, resulted in public pressure to make it more difficult to obtain them.

Recently, the Federal Circuit took a step away from State Street’s broad interpretation of section 101. On October 30, 2008, it decided In re Bilski. The Federal Circuit reconsidered the scope of section 101 and held the “machine-or-transformation” test to be the sole test to determine whether a process is patent eligible. As a result, “a claimed process is surely patent-eligible under section 101 if: (1) it is tied to a particular machine or apparatus, or (2) it transforms a particular article into a different state or thing.”

This article argues that Bilski’s “machine-or-transformation” test should not be the test to determine patent-eligibility of process claims under section 101. As it will demonstrate, Bilski’s test is ambiguous, inconsistent with Supreme Court precedent, and fails to adequately address the problem courts are really concerned about: the issuance of “bad” and costly patents. If the Supreme Court will not abandon this test, trivial and absurd inventions, such as “a method for swinging on a swing” or a method “for exercising curious animals, especially pet cats” with a laser pointer will continue to be patentable.

Instead of Bilski’s “machine-or-transformation” test, this article will suggest returning to the practical, well-established standards to determine patent-eligibility under section 101: “anything under the sun that is made by man” should be patentable, with the exception of “laws of nature, natural phenomena, or abstract ideas.” Indeed, the subject-matter doctrine is the best mechanism to address the issues raised by “bad inventions.” Under these standards, section 101 would remain flexible and easily applicable. To facilitate the application of these limitations to the field of software, this article will suggest establishing an advisory committee of software experts that will advise the Patent Office and the courts as to the patentability of software inventions under section 101. Consequently, the “gate-keeping” function of section 101 will be successfully preserved.

Suggested Citation:

Perel, Maayan, A Critique of In Re Bilski (June 1, 2008). DePaul Journal of Art, Technology & Intellectual Property Law, Vol. 20, No. 1, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2252263
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
at 184. 60. Brief of Am. Intell. Prop. Law Ass'n, supra note 43
at 185. 62. Brief of Am. Intell. Prop. Law Ass'n, supra note 43
Bilski
Prop. Law Ass'n, supra note 43
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
785,592
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Intellectual Property: Patent Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies