Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Ex Ante Method of Patent Valuation: Transforming Patent Quality into Patent Value

14 J. High Tech. L. 48 (2014)

89 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2013 Last revised: 20 May 2015

Maayan Perel (Filmar)

Netanya Academic College

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 7, 2013

Abstract

This Article presents a novel, ex ante method of patent valuation for licensing purposes. It suggests that the value of patents should correlate with their technological contribution for our patent system to adequately reward innovation. The proposed method deviates from existing methods in at least four novel aspects. First, it adopts a social-normative perspective instead of a positive-economic one. Thus, it asks what should be the license value, from the standpoint of the patent system, and not what would be that value in a world with no regulatory intervention. Second, it is performed ex ante, upon the grant of patent protection, far before any licensing negotiations are initiated. Third, it recommends setting flexible limitations over the ultimate license value, rather than setting a single fixed price. Fourth, it suggests subjecting the process of patent valuation to external regulation, instead of leaving it to the exclusive control of free market powers.

Accordingly, this Article advances a two step, novel method of patent valuation: first, determining the quality of a given patent according to the proposed quality indicators, and then, assigning flexible price limitations that correlate with the patent’s quality. Such a social-normative method of patent valuation, this Article contends, would promote at least four significant objectives. First, by translating patent quality into patent value, it could encourage high quality innovation and improve patent quality. Second, by setting ex ante limitations over the licensing price the patentee may ultimately demand, it would downgrade patent trolling. Third, by determining the price of a patent upon issuance, it could neutralize the manipulative effect of external factors, such as the identity of negotiating parties and their respective bargaining powers, as well as the circumstances surrounding the licensing negotiations, which bears no relation to patent quality, over the patent’s value. The proposed ex ante method could hence limit the ability of patentees having strong bargaining power to obtain un-proportional licensing fees that fail to reflect the true value of their inventions. Consequently, it could hamper their ability to hold-up follow-on innovation and impede future research. Fourth, in the long term, the proposed method would also reduce litigation costs and decrease litigation rates for the benefit of the public as a whole.

Suggested Citation:

Perel, Maayan, An Ex Ante Method of Patent Valuation: Transforming Patent Quality into Patent Value (February 7, 2013). 14 J. High Tech. L. 48 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2252251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
See Rebecca Eisenberg
Wisdom of the Ages or Dead-Hand Control? Patentable Subject Matter for Diagnostic Methods After In re Bilski , volume 1 , p. 43 - 44 Posted: 2012
See supra Part IV.C (discussing the basis for evaluating patent valuation)
See supra Part IV.C (declaring the benefits of innovation brought about by new patents)
See Perel, supra note 30, at 291-92 (discussing the detriment caused by allowing patents to be awarded to inventions "lacking any prospective commercial use
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,509
RANK
224,403
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow

Intellectual Property: Patent Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies