Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Some Thoughts on Article 82 Jurisprudence - If the Government Always Wins, Should Private Litigants Win as Well?

13 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2013

Kent Bernard

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: April 19, 2013

Abstract

If you want to know where you are going, it helps to know where you are. As we see the European Commission moving deeper into limiting what allegedly dominant companies can and cannot do, the question arises whether the same rules being applied in cases brought by the Commission should also apply if and when such cases are brought by private parties. To answer this question, we start with the current law under Article 82. We then take a step back to examine the philosophical underpinnings of the doctrines that are leading to the court decisions, and we then examine whether those underpinnings justify applying the same rules to private party suits.

Keywords: private antitrust litigation, european union

Suggested Citation:

Bernard, Kent, Some Thoughts on Article 82 Jurisprudence - If the Government Always Wins, Should Private Litigants Win as Well? (April 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2254013 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2254013
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Antitrust Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies