Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Intricacies of Tax & Globalization

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2014

21 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2013 Last revised: 26 Aug 2014

Sagit Leviner

Ono Academic College Faculty of Law; Ono Academic College - Faculty of Business Administration; Bank of Israel

Date Written: August 26, 2014

Abstract

This article reviews Avi-Yonah, Sartori, and Marian’s Global Perspectives on Income Taxation Law (Oxford, 2011). It outlines the book’s key features and strengths in the quest for understanding the effect of globalization on taxation. In this process, the article also looks into available data to explore global trends in taxation over the past three and a half decades to evaluate whether and to what extent globalization leads to convergence or divergence of national tax policies. The article concludes that as Global Perspectives on Income Taxation Law illustrates, while globalization may lead to at least some observed trends in taxation—including the flattening of income tax rates and the move toward the taxation of less mobile sources, and thus more regressive, tax schemes—there is clearly far more than meets the eye. Here, Global Perspectives on Income Taxation Law provides a valuable reference for how different countries confront challenges that are common among tax systems. Keeping in mind that differences among national tax systems nonetheless exist and understanding how tax systems converge and diverge constitutes a vital first step toward crystallizing the necessary actions to better coordinate between multiple tax systems while retaining national sovereignty in tax design. Over the long run, this could also lead to better evaluation of the net benefit or cost of globalization, allowing policymakers to respond effectively to the fiscal challenges that globalization presents.

Keywords: Tax & Globalization, Tax Competition, Comparative Analysis, Tax Policy, Tax Coordination, Tax Harmonization

JEL Classification: A1, A19, F01, F02, H00, H2, H29, H41, H69, K34, O1, P5

Suggested Citation:

Leviner, Sagit, The Intricacies of Tax & Globalization (August 26, 2014). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2254849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2254849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
While not without its flaws, the OECD's 1998 initiative played an important role in forming international tax relationships for the past decade and a half. See OECD, HARMFUL TAX COMPETITION: AN EMERGING GLOBAL ISSUE Posted: 1998
Crossref
The Oecd , Oecd&apos;s Project , On , The Tax Practices ; Oecd , Oecd&apos;s Project , Harmful , Practices
UPDATE ON PROGRESS IN MEMBER COUNTIES Posted: 2004
Crossref
Harmful Oecd , Tax Competition
The Report is intended to develop a better understanding of how tax havens and harmful preferential tax regimes, collectively referred to as harmful tax practices, affect the location of financial and other service activities, erode the tax bases of other countries, distort trade and investment patterns and undermine the fairness, neutrality and broad social acceptance of tax systems generally. Such harmful tax competition diminishes global welfare and undermines taxpayer confidence in the integrity of tax systems , volume 57
Avi-Yonah
(explaining that the list of uncooperative jurisdictions was drafted based on the 1998 OECD report on Harmful Tax Competition as well as a second report , p. 784 - 85
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,336
RANK
118,061
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies