Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporations, Taxes, and Religion: The Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Contraceptive Cases

South Carolina Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2013

79 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2013 Last revised: 7 Dec 2013

Steven J. Willis

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: April 22, 2013

Abstract

Beginning in 2013, the federal government mandated that general business corporations include contraceptive and early abortion coverage in large employee health plans. Internal Revenue Code Section 4980D imposes a substantial excise tax on health plans violating the mandate. Indeed, for one company – Hobby Lobby – the expected annual tax is nearly one-half billion dollars. Dozens of “for profit” businesses have challenged the mandate on free exercise grounds, asserting claims under the First Amendment as well as under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.

So far, courts have been reluctant to hold corporations have religious rights of their own; as a result, standing of a corporation to assert the religious beliefs and rights of owners has become the primary issue in the thirty-six separate cases moving through the courts. Courts are split on whether to grant standing; however, a large majority has used a variation of prudential or associational standing to grant preliminary injunctions against enforcement of the tax.

On November 26, 2013, the Court granted certiorari in the Hobby Lobby and Conestoga cases, arising from the 10th and 3d Circuits. The 10th, sitting en banc, essentially ruled in favor of Hobby Lobby by paving the way for a preliminary injunction; in contrast, the 3d ruled again Conestoga. During the period it lacked an injunction, Hobby Lobby chose not to comply with the mandate, while Conestoga has complied (though it continues to raise constitutional objections).

This article discusses the relationship of morality and religion to general business corporations. It concludes that over the past few decades, movements for social justice and corporate social responsibility have intertwined business corporations and moral issues, blurring the line between religion and commerce. It also concludes that courts should permit associational standing for closely-held corporations – particularly those electing S status for tax purposes – if the owners have unanimous (or near-unanimous) beliefs. It proposes a Faith Based Corporations Act (FBCA) as a vehicle for commercial businesses to declare their religious beliefs with state recognition.

Keywords: religion, tax, Hobby Lobby, free exercise, RFRA

Suggested Citation:

Willis, Steven J., Corporations, Taxes, and Religion: The Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Contraceptive Cases (April 22, 2013). South Carolina Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2254936 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2254936
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
The cap equals the lesser of $500,000 or 10% of the entity's health insurance costs for the prior year
The company did not comply with the mandate for the eighteen days it was subject to it, according to confidential sources. The tax for that period amounts to $23,832,000 and would seem unlikely to be subject to a reasonable cause waiver
See HHS Mandate Information Central, supra note 7. 80. This information comes from a conversation with a confidential source
Conestoga Complaint, supra note 33
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
561
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,899
RANK
112,534
1 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies