Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profits from Tax Evasion Under the Midco Transaction

Tax Notes, p. 45, March 2013

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 444

The Shelf Project

10 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2013

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Abstract

In a transaction the IRS has called the midco shelter, a scoundrel evades tax on the sale of a corporation’s business assets and shares the benefit of the evasion with the sellers of the corporation’s stock and the buyers of its assets. Shareholders of a corporation with appreciated assets sell stock to the scoundrel, and the corporation sells its assets. Tax on the gain is due but the scoundrel evades tax. Asset buyers get a step-up in basis to cost without having to cover the tax on the asset sale. Stock sellers get a price greater than the net worth of assets, when tax due is considered.

The proposal would make the selling shareholders secondarily liable for the corporate tax, limited by the premium they receive in excess of the corporation’s net worth. That premium would be measured from the actual sales of corporate assets. The proposal would also make asset buyers secondarily liable for corporate tax, limited by the deemed value of the step-up in basis. The proposal would have no effect on current transferee liability law.

The proposal is made as a part of the Shelf Project, a collaboration among tax professionals to develop proposals to help Congress raise revenue in ways that improve the fairness and efficiency of the tax system. Shelf projects follow the format of a committee report, describing current law and the reasons for change and providing an explanation of the proposal.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Profits from Tax Evasion Under the Midco Transaction. Tax Notes, p. 45, March 2013, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 444, The Shelf Project, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2255031
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,693
RANK
253,661
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies