Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Auditing

18 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2013 Last revised: 13 Jun 2013

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: April 22, 2013

Abstract

I discuss the future of auditing, including fundamental auditing issues and current auditing issues. I include discussion of current proposals for change, and some current research. Auditing is a very complex task, and has developed particular structures and standards to deal with its complexities. It is also very important, and its structure needs continual review to ensure it will achieve its objectives. I conclude with some observations on the future of auditing. I suggest that the future of auditing will require restructuring of the partnership form to be more transparent; that regulation will be stronger, and will be multinational; research-based auditing developments will be incorporated into auditing practice; and the relevance of auditing will expand to include appropriate levels of auditing for all types and sizes of organization.

Keywords: Auditing, partnerships, regulation

JEL Classification: J44, L84, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David, The Future of Auditing (April 22, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2255316 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2255316
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R Baskerville , D Hay
The impact of globalization on professional accounting firms: evidence from New Zealand
Accounting History , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Baskerville , D Hay
The effect of accounting firm mergers on the market for audit services: New Zealand evidence
Abacus , volume 42 , p. 87 - 104 Posted: 2006-03
Crossref
Chartered Accountants Journal. 2012. Better Audit Reports Posted: 2004-12
Crossref
D J Cooper , R Hinings , R Greenwood , J L Brown
Sedimentation and transformation in organizational change: the case of Canadian law firms
Organization Studies , volume 17 , p. 623 - 647 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,021
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,493
RANK
50,895
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies