Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Taxonomy of Corporate Governance Reporting Concepts

34 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2013 Last revised: 11 May 2013

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Question/Issue: This working paper explores the theory that due to globalization national corporate governance bundles including national and firm-level dimensions tend to converge to each other. The focus of the study is to provide empirical evidence for this hypothesis by deriving a taxonomy based on multinational corporate governance reporting concepts. This reveals that there are a few such concepts used by multinational corporations. In accordance with Healy and Palepu (2001, page 431) changes in corporate governance reporting disclosures are not regarded as “random events”, but are instead seen interrelated with changes in firm governance. Further, according to the author companies have to consider national as well as firm-specific corporate governance requirements due to the fierce competition in capital markets, so that changes in corporate governance disclosure changes also reflect national corporate governance dimensions. The sample is based on 30 foreign private issuers listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) comprising mainly financial institutions, industrial corporations and insurance entities. All these companies have in common that they file as non-domestic filers and therefore have to make a decision about which concept for corporate governance reporting they follow. Do they adopt the US - shareholder model, do they pursue a combination of their national model and the U.S. – shareholder model or do they follow a unified approach. This decision will be influenced by the firm’s internal governance structures, impact of shareholders, legal risk assessment and senior management decisions.

Research Findings/Insights: This study underlies that although there are national boundaries and firm-specific differences in corporate governance there are common global corporate governance reporting concepts, which can be derived empirically. At the end, there is significant evidence to conclude that there are three main corporate governance reporting concepts: the single, the unified and the combined. However, due to the process of benchmarking and peers analysis corporations continually search to identify best-in-class concepts, which are most efficient and provide a competitive advantage. This market-driven impact can be traced back to studies by La Porta et al. (2000).

Theoretical/Academic Implication: Findings could help to support the development of a global theory of corporate governance, as the study reveals common corporate governance concepts.

Practitioner/Policy Implication: The study provides insights into corporate governance reporting of multi-national corporations and is relevant for practitioner as well as for the academic research about Corporate Governance.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Reporting, Convergence, Taxonomy, Multi-Method

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, A Taxonomy of Corporate Governance Reporting Concepts (April 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2256179 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2256179
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
C Alves , V Mendes
Corporate Governance policy and company performance: the Portugese case
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 290 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G Aras , D Growther
A handbook of corporate goverance and social responsibility Posted: 2010
Crossref
L A Bebchuk , M J Roe
A theory of path dependence in corporate ownership and governance
Stanford Law Review , volume 52 , p. 127 - 70 Posted: 1999
Crossref
B Berelson
Content analysis in communication research Posted: 1952
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
254
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,184
RANK
275,235
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Evolving 'Rules of the Game' in Corporate Governance Reform

By Jennifer G. Hill

Globalization and the Study of Comparative Corporate Governance

By Arthur R. Pinto

The Social Construction of Sarbanes-Oxley

By Donald C. Langevoort

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies