Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Social Enterprise

Stanford Law Review, Vol. 66, p. 387, 2014

Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 1311

57 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2013 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015

Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer

Notre Dame Law School

Joseph Ganahl

Tax Division

Date Written: April 19, 2013

Abstract

The fairly strict divide in the United States between for-profit and nonprofit forms presents a quandary for many entrepreneurs who want to combine doing good with doing well. On the one hand, for-profits offer great flexibility and access to capital and so attract entrepreneurs who would like to take advantage of the ability of for-profits to scale up rapidly to meet growing demand. At the same time, however, for-profit forms also limit entrepreneurs’ ability to engage in philanthropy, due to the fiduciary duties managers owe to the equity holders. On the other hand, nonprofits offer their founders the freedom to prioritize public benefit but limit both their access to capital, in large part due to the bar on equity financing for a nonprofit, and their flexibility in addressing changing societal needs as a result of constraints in the law designed to deter nonprofits from straying into activities unrelated to their narrow primary mission. Hybrids — low-profit limited liability companies, benefit corporations, and other related forms — have been touted as the “both-and” solution to this problem by marrying the capital and innovation that results from the ability to generate a profit for investors with the public benefit goals that characterize most nonprofits.

Since the first hybrid enabling law was passed in Vermont in 2008, the number of states offering hybrid forms has grown steadily, as has the number of entrepreneurs choosing statutory hybrids as a middle road between the for-profit and the nonprofit. Plaudits for and criticism of the hybrid form have also proliferated. Proponents have lauded their ability to facilitate socially conscious enterprise. Detractors have questioned the viability of the hybrid form and have suggested that they create more fiduciary conflicts than they resolve. To date, however, there has been no serious scholarly publication addressing the appropriate tax treatment of hybrid entities even though some supporters of hybrids have asserted that these forms deserve beneficial tax treatment. In this Article, we intend to close that gap by thoroughly examining the arguments for tax preference and the likely consequences that would flow from offering such preference.

We accept the fact that hybrid forms have gained a firm foothold in the legal landscape and expect that they will increase in prominence and influence. We contend, however, that offering nonprofit-like tax benefits to hybrid entities will likely have a deleterious effect, not only on the charitable sector and the public fisc, but possibly even on hybrids themselves. The Article concludes with some proposals for possible modifications to existing tax laws that would acknowledge hybrids’ virtues while not exacerbating their potential weaknesses.

Keywords: tax, social enterprise, social entrepreneurship, nonprofit, philanthropy, charitable, L3C, benefit corporation, flexible purpose corporation

JEL Classification: K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Lloyd Hitoshi and Ganahl, Joseph, Taxing Social Enterprise (April 19, 2013). Stanford Law Review, Vol. 66, p. 387, 2014, Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 1311, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2256539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
See Lang & Minnigh, supra note 28 , p. 17 - 18
c) (allowing partnerships to elect to be treated as corporations for federal tax purposes
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 301 , p. 7701 - 7704
Marcus S Owens , Member , &amp; Caplin , Drysdale , Ronald J Chartered , Schultz
Senior Technical Advisor
L3Cs will be structured to qualify as recipients of PRIs, with both taxable and tax-exempt ownership interests , volume 2 Posted: 2009-07-08
I R S See
Gen. Couns. Mem , volume 36 , p. 10 - 11 Posted: 1975-05-30
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
489
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,090
RANK
133,263
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Purpose with Profit: Governance, Enforcement, Capital-Raising and Capital-Locking in Low-Profit Limited Liability Companies

By J. Haskell Murray and Edward I. Hwang

Social Enterprise: Who Needs it?

By Brian D. Galle

Keep Charity Charitable

By Brian D. Galle

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies