Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
After Ten Years, Sarbanes-Oxley Might Be Statutory Overkill

Loyola Consumer Law Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, p. 363, 2013

14 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2013 Last revised: 7 Jun 2013

Harvey Gilmore

University of Hartford

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

The start of the twenty first century brought with it some spectacular corporate accounting scandals: Enron, World-Com, Adelphia, and Tyco, to name a few. The subsequent congressional hearings investigating the accounting and ethical failures of these companies resulted in a parade of one corporate executive after another claiming they had no knowledge of the massive fraud in their firms. In response to this rapid-fire succession of corporate scandals, Congress enacted the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). It is a statute first introduced by Senator Paul Sarbanes and Congressman Michael Oxley, and signed into law by President George W. Bush in July 2002. The two major problem areas that SOX sought to remedy were personal accountability of corporate managers, and that of auditor independence. As a result, SOX created the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), an administrative agency charged with the responsibility of establishing audit standards for publicly traded companies.

In this essay, I will argue that there are some provisions within SOX that wrongfully make the innocent suffer for the guilty. I will first look at Section 206, which prohibits an auditor from taking a position with a client for at least one year after participating in an audit of that same client. I will next look at Section 203, which requires that an auditing firm rotate its partner if it worked with a specific client for the previous five years. Finally, I will look at Section 304, which requires the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of a publicly traded corporation to disgorge their profits if the financial statements must be restated due to fraud. In doing so, I do not mean to suggest that enacting SOX was unnecessary or unsuccessful; I am merely pointing out that even a right motive can sometimes yield a harshly wrong result.

Suggested Citation:

Gilmore, Harvey, After Ten Years, Sarbanes-Oxley Might Be Statutory Overkill (April 24, 2013). Loyola Consumer Law Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, p. 363, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2256233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,567
RANK
427,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies