Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act Takes the Bite Out of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: Adding Corporate Governance to the Discussion

Iowa Law Review, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2013

Stacie Townsend

University of Iowa - College of Law

Date Written: April 26, 2013

Abstract

The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (“JOBS Act”), which became law in April 2012, made significant deregulations to the United States’ securities law. One such deregulation essentially eliminated the outsider audit mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). There are strong justifications for and against this law. However, one significant interest is missing from the discussion — corporate governance. Corporate governance is important because it furthers Congress’s goals of job creation and economic growth. Because the outsider-audit requirement improves corporate governance practices, this Note proposes a different approach for regulating the controversial outsider-audit requirement. Instead of backpedaling on SOX section 404(b)’s outsider-audit provision, the JOBS Act should retain section 404(b), provide a limited exception for businesses that are both small and young (businesses that make less than $75 million and are less than ten years old), and encourage businesses to voluntarily strengthen their corporate governance frameworks.

Keywords: JOBS Act Section 103, Sarbanes-Oxley 404(b), corporate governance and the JOBS Act, JOBS Act on-ramp outsider-audit provision, corporate governance, job creation, economic growth

JEL Classification: K22, K20

Suggested Citation:

Townsend, Stacie, The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act Takes the Bite Out of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: Adding Corporate Governance to the Discussion (April 26, 2013). Iowa Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2256940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
127 References
ECONOMIST Posted: 2005-05-19
Crossref
Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of , volume 404 Posted: 2002
Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of , volume 404 Posted: 2002
See Study and Recommendations on Section 404(b) of the
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
RANK
524,740
127 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies