Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dare You Sue the Tax Collector? An Empirical Study of Administrative Lawsuits Against Tax Agencies in China

Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal, volume 23 no.1, January 2014

56 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2013 Last revised: 20 Jan 2015

Ji Li

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: April 24, 2013

Abstract

Though taxes are as certain as death, each year tens of thousands in the United States go to court to challenge their assessed tax liabilities, and many will succeed. By contrast, very few Chinese taxpayers litigate against tax agencies, and most of those who sue eventually settle, despite low formal litigation costs. Non-litigious culture does not fully explain the reluctance to sue, as courts in Taiwan (about 2% of the Chinese population) adjudicated five times more lawsuits against tax agencies. I contend that judicial bias favoring government officials, weak enforcement of judgments against the state, and agency retaliation explain the aversion to litigate disputes with tax agencies in China. But once the reluctance to sue is explained, the cases that go to trial, though small in number, constitute a more intriguing empirical puzzle. Why would anyone in China insist on judicial resolution of disputes with powerful tax agencies, given all the adverse conditions that have deterred hundreds of thousands from doing so? I provide a number of theoretical explanations, which are evaluated and substantiated with an empirical analysis of all tax-related administrative lawsuits that went to trial from 2009 to 2011 in Henan Province, one of the most populous provinces in China. In contrast to existing literatures on Chinese administrative litigation, this study is the first to include substantive analysis of an unbiased sample of cases. The findings contribute to the literatures on Chinese tax administration, administrative litigation in China, and extant trial selection theories.

Keywords: tax administration, tax litigation, Chinese tax, administrative law, administrative litigation, Chinese law, trial selection theory, dispute resolution

Suggested Citation:

Li, Ji, Dare You Sue the Tax Collector? An Empirical Study of Administrative Lawsuits Against Tax Agencies in China (April 24, 2013). Pacific Rim Law & Policy Journal, volume 23 no.1, January 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2256021 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2256021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Jiaona Susongfei , Banfa
Measures Regarding Payment of Litigation Fee] (promulgated by the St. Council , volume 5 Posted: 2006-12-19
中 华 人 民 共 和 国 行 政 诉 讼 法
Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó Xíngzhèng Sùsòng Fǎ Posted: 1989-04-04
Ji Li
, volume 9
See Xin He & Yang Su, supra note 9
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,117
RANK
189,749
6 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies