Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Rules and Firm Performance: Impairment and Disclosure Practices Related to the AFS Equity Investments in Italian Listed Banks

Management Control 2, 2012 - Special issue

35 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2013

Gianluca Ginesti

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions - University of Naples

Giuseppe Sannino

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics

Paolo Tartaglia Polcini

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: September 3, 2012

Abstract

In banking industry, equity investments classified as available for sale (AFS) are a relevant portion of financial assets. According to IAS 39, they must be measured (“at” and “after” recognition) at fair value. Increases or decreases in this value have to be recognized in the other comprehensive income, except when there is objective evidence of impairment. In this case, impairment losses are recognized in the net income.

IAS 39 lists some events that can give rise to an impairment loss, among which a “significant or prolonged” decline in fair value (par. 61). In the absence of detailed guidance, preparers have a great discretion in interpreting the meaning of the terms “significant” and “prolonged”.

The paper shows the results of an empirical study about AFS equity investments in the annual report of Italian listed banks for the fiscal years 2007-2010. It investigates the events from which they deducted the impairment losses and the disclosure provided about them. The paper also looks at how the banks implemented the concept of “significant or prolonged decline in fair value”.

The evidence is of a heterogeneous behavior among different banks in the same year and between different years for the same bank. The disclosure provided to the market was poor until the Authority imposed a mandatory information. The authors formulate hypothesis about the reasons of these evidences, especially as regards earnings management policies because of the financial crisis and its impact on financial performance.

Keywords: Banks, Financial Instruments, Fair value, Impairment, IAS 39, Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Ginesti, Gianluca and Sannino, Giuseppe and Tartaglia Polcini, Paolo, Accounting Rules and Firm Performance: Impairment and Disclosure Practices Related to the AFS Equity Investments in Italian Listed Banks (September 3, 2012). Management Control 2, 2012 - Special issue, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257408 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2257408
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
Nell&apos;interpretare I Risultati Della Ricerca
non può essere trascurato che il quadriennio considerato si presenta particolare rispetto al tema dell'impairment poiché coincide con la grave crisi finanziaria che ha interessato e interessa l'intero mondo economico occidentale. E tale circostanza sembrerebbe in grado di giustificare gran parte dei dati osservati. Infine, non vanno tuttavia sottovalutate anche possibili politiche di earnings management
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-Specific Factors Related to Financial Reporting and the Value Relevance of Accounting Data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 1 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Andrei P
L'adozione degli IAS/IFRS in Italia: impatti contabili e profili gestionali Posted: 2006
P André , A Cazavan-Jeny , D Wolfgang , R Chrystelle , P Walton
Fair Value Accounting and the Banking Crisis in 2008: shooting the messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,647
RANK
342,603
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Marking to Market: Panacea or Pandora's Box?

By Guillaume Plantin, Haresh Sapra, ...

Mark-to-Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing

By Franklin Allen and Elena Carletti

Accounting in and for the Subprime Crisis

By Stephen G. Ryan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies