Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)'s Guidelines for Preparing Management Commentary (MC): Evidence from Italian Listed Firms

Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing - March 2013, Vol. 9, No. 3, 305-320

Posted: 28 Apr 2013

Giuseppe Sannino

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics

Gianluca Ginesti

Department of Economics, Management, Institutions - University of Naples

Riccardo Macchioni

Second University of Naples - Department of Strategy and Quantitative Methods

Maria Spano

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: September 3, 2012

Abstract

This paper investigates the Italian firms’ disclosure in response to the new guidance on the management commentary (MC) contained in the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) practice statement issued by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) in 2010. The study is organized as follows. After reviewing the relevant literature on financial disclosure and MC, this paper examines the content of the Italian management’s report ⎯ known as “Relazione sulla Gestione” and that of the recent IASB’s IFRS practice statement. Hence, it applies a self-constructed disclosure index and a multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) on MC of a sample of 66 Italian non-financial listed firms. The results show that the level of disclosures provided by the Italian listed firms does not seem to be affected by the IASB’s guidelines. However, the survey highlights large differences in the level and type of disclosure provided in MC among the sectors and firms. This paper aims to contribute to the financial reporting debate by understanding the IASB’s guidelines and their impacts on the voluntary disclosure practices of Italian listed firms.

Keywords: management commentary (MC), International Accounting Standard (IAS), International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS), narrative disclosures, financial reporting

Suggested Citation:

Sannino, Giuseppe and Ginesti, Gianluca and Macchioni, Riccardo and Spano, Maria, The Impact of International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)'s Guidelines for Preparing Management Commentary (MC): Evidence from Italian Listed Firms (September 3, 2012). Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing - March 2013, Vol. 9, No. 3, 305-320, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257423
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies