Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PPL: Exposing the Flaws of the Foreign Tax Credit

Tax Notes, Vol. 139, No. 5, 2013

14 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2013

Alan D. Viard

American Enterprise Institute

Date Written: April 29, 2013

Abstract

In this article, Viard explains that PPL Corp. v. Commissioner highlights the lack of a sound policy reason for the foreign tax credit’s favorable treatment of foreign income taxes relative to other foreign taxes and nontax costs of earning foreign income. He argues that relief from excessive taxation of cross border investment is better achieved by eliminating corporate-level taxes on overseas income and the remaining source-based taxes on portfolio income.

Suggested Citation:

Viard, Alan D., PPL: Exposing the Flaws of the Foreign Tax Credit (April 29, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 139, No. 5, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
785,592
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stateless Income

By Edward D. Kleinbard

Tax Haven Incorporation for U.S. Headquartered Firms: No Exodus Yet

By Eric J. Allen and Susan C. Morse

The David R. Tillinghast Lecture: The Rising Tax-Electivity of U.S. Corporate Residence

By Daniel Shaviro

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies