Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Classification Shifting Using the 'Corporate/Other' Segment

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2013

Bradley E. Lail

Baylor University

Wayne B. Thomas

University of Oklahoma

Glyn J. Winterbotham

Winthrop University

Date Written: April 26, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, we examine management’s use of the “corporate/other” segment to mask the true performance of operating (or core) segments. The corporate/other segment represents firm-wide expenses not allocated to core segments. We find that managers take advantage of vague cost allocation requirements to shift expenses between the corporate/other segment and core segments. Specifically, in the presence of agency problems (i.e., transfer of resources to underperforming segments), our evidence is consistent with expenses being shifted from core segments to the corporate/other segment. This shifting increases the reported performance of underperforming core segments. In addition, when proprietary concerns are high (i.e., operations in less competitive industries), we find evidence consistent with corporate/other expenses being shifted to core segments. By shifting expenses to core segments, core profits are concealed when proprietary motives are present. Our research contributes to a growing literature on earnings manipulation through expense shifting (rather than accrual manipulation or real activities management).

Keywords: Segment reporting, corporate expenses, classification shifting, agency costs, proprietary costs

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Lail, Bradley E. and Thomas, Wayne B. and Winterbotham, Glyn J., Classification Shifting Using the 'Corporate/Other' Segment (April 26, 2013). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
The limitations of industry concentration measures constructed with Compustat data: Implications for finance research
Review of Financial Studies , volume 22 , issue 10 , p. 3839 - 3871 Posted: 2009
Crossref
B Baldwin
Segment earnings disclosure and the ability of security analysts to forecast earnings per share
The Accounting Review , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 376 - 389 Posted: 1984
D A Bens , P G Berger , S J Monahan
Discretionary disclosure in financial reporting: An examination comparing internal firm data to externally reported segment data
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 417 - 449 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P G Berger , R Hann
The impact of SFAS 131 on information and monitoring
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , issue 2 , p. 163 - 223 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
507
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,617
RANK
127,554
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

The Valuation of the Foreign Income of U.S. Multinational Firms: A Growth Opportunities Perspective

By Gordon M. Bodnar and Joseph Weintrop

A Test of the Market’s Mispricing of Domestic and Foreign Earnings

By Wayne B. Thomas

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies