Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Funds Transfer Pricing

23 Pages Posted: 3 May 2013

Hovik Tumasyan

FinRisk Solutions; Deloitte LLP - Deloitte Canada; SAS

Date Written: February 26, 2012

Abstract

Fundamentally, the objectives of funds transfer pricing (FTP) have remained the same as when it was first developed. However, in the environment of very low interest rates that preceded the recent financial crisis FTP frameworks in many banks have been left underfunded and underdeveloped.

The financial crisis brought FTP into the regulatory spotlight. Regulators expect banks to be able to demonstrate how their FTP frameworks are aligned to the best practice principles for liquidity management.

The paper reflects on the fundamental aspects of a FTP framework and its role in a bank.

Keywords: Funds transfer pricing, FTP

Suggested Citation:

Tumasyan, Hovik, Revisiting Funds Transfer Pricing (February 26, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257081 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2257081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Deventer
Kenji Imai and Mark Mesler Advanced Financial Risk Management: Tools and Techniques for Integrated Credit Risk and Interest Rate Risk Management
Asia) Pte Ltd Posted: 2005
W J Mcguire
Indeterminate Term Deposits in FTP: Quantified Solutions at Last! Journal of Performance Management , p. 14 - 26 Posted: 2004-05
S Turner
Funds Transfer Pricing:Cracking the Code on Deposit Valuation
Novantas White Paper Series Posted: 2008
Cornyn
A multi-factor model for the valuation and risk management of demand deposits. National Bank of Belgium
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,064
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,598
RANK
9,340
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Credit Where Equity is Due

By Hovik Tumasyan

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies