Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IL Fair Value nei principi contabili internazionali: Origini e recenti tendenze (Fair Value in the International Accounting Standards Model: Background and Latest Trends)

Il controllo nelle società e negli enti, Fasc. 3, 2012

37 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2013

Natalia Aversano

University of Salerno

Giuseppe Sannino

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics

Paolo Tartaglia Polcini

University of Naples Federico II

Date Written: April 26, 2013

Abstract

Fair value measurement is a traditional subject in the Anglo-Saxon accounting culture. Considering that this culture is the main basis which IASB relies on, fair value is a milestone in the IAS/IFRS too. Strong criticism has been expressed about the usefulness of this value concept and the potential damage it can generate if used in financial reporting. Some authors think that the fair value accounting has been one of the main causes of the economic and financial crisis in the capitalistic world in the last years. Nonetheless, it continues to represent a fundamental conceptual reference for the IASB. So the IASB, following the American FASB, in May 2011 issued IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, with the aim to improve the consistency of its actual utilization among different evaluation objects in financial accounting. The basic idea is that, in order to improve the reliability of fair value measurement, an accounting standard body ought to specify the methodological approach to be used for the typical value measurement matters, on the one hand, and to specify the disclosure requirements, on the other hand. In fact, main problems in using fair value for accounting purposes depend on the circumstance that the technical tool to measure the value of an asset or a liability is not univocal and the reliability of the result depends on the kind of informational inputs used.

Among the large range of possible value concepts by which fair value is determined, IFRS 13 prefers exit price: the price by which an asset can be sold or a liability can be transferred. As regards the reliability of the measurement, the IFRS 13 solves the problem of the different degrees of reliability by creating the concept of “fair value levels”. There are three levels and going from the first to the third, the reliability of the measurement decreases. The highest level of reliability is obtained when it is possible to rely on an active market in which the asset or liability to be evaluated is regularly exchanged. In case of a weak reliability measurement, the IASB thinks that the better solution is to give the user of the financial reporting a complete set of information about the way the fair value is measured and, especially, the associated degree of reliability (level of fair value) is assigned.

Keywords: fair value, exit value, disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Aversano, Natalia and Sannino, Giuseppe and Tartaglia Polcini, Paolo, IL Fair Value nei principi contabili internazionali: Origini e recenti tendenze (Fair Value in the International Accounting Standards Model: Background and Latest Trends) (April 26, 2013). Il controllo nelle società e negli enti, Fasc. 3, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2257050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,998
RANK
225,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies