Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance, Detection, and Mergers and Acquisitions

Managerial and Decision Economics 34(7) 2013

Minnesota Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-21

47 Pages Posted: 2 May 2013 Last revised: 22 Jun 2013

Vivek Ghosal

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute for Economic Research (CESifo)

D. Daniel Sokol

USC Gould School of Law; USC Marshall School of Business

Date Written: May 1, 2013

Abstract

Firms operate under a wide range of rules and regulations. These include, for example, environmental regulations (in which some industries have increased regulatory exposure) and finance and accounting (where all industries have reporting requirements). In other areas, such as antitrust cartels, enforcement is unregulated and antitrust leaves the market as the default tool to police against anti-competitive behavior. In all of these areas, detection of non-compliance by a firm can result in significant penalties. This issue of non-compliance has implications in the merger and acquisitions (M&A) context. In a transaction between an acquiring firm (buyer) and a target firm (seller), there is asymmetric information about the target’s quality. In our framework, we link a target’s quality directly to the strength of its regulatory compliance. In an M&A transaction, an acquirer seeks information about the target’s compliance, as a compliance failure may result in substantial penalties and sanctions, post-acquisition. In the presence of quality (compliance) uncertainty about target firms, low quality targets can masquerade as high quality. This would tend to give rise to a M&A market with Lemons-like characteristics, resulting in low transactions prices and dampening of M&A activity. We examine how M&A transactions in such regulatory areas – environmental, finance and accounting, and antitrust compliance problems – might function to alleviate quality uncertainty.

Keywords: corporate compliance, corporate strategy, Lemons markets, mergers and acquisitions, environmental regulations, securities regulations, accounting, antitrust, cartels, white collar crime

JEL Classification: G34, K21, K22, K32, L40, M21

Suggested Citation:

Ghosal, Vivek and Sokol, D. Daniel, Compliance, Detection, and Mergers and Acquisitions (May 1, 2013). Managerial and Decision Economics 34(7) 2013, Minnesota Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2259039 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2259039
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
D Aboody , J Hughes , J Liu
Earnings quality, insider trading and cost of capital
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 651 - 673 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R V Aguilera , D Rupp , C Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S back in CSR: A multi-level theory of social change in organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G Akerlof
The market for lemons: quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
S Ambec , P Barla
A theoretical foundation of the Porter hypothesis
Economics Letters , volume 75 , p. 355 - 360 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,936
RANK
143,068
4 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Minnesota Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stock-Related Compensation and Product-Market Competition

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

Managerial Incentives and Collusive Behavior

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

Ownership, Control and Collusion

By Giancarlo Spagnolo

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies