Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drawing Sensible Borders for the Definition of 'Foreign Official' Under the FCPA

American Journal of Criminal Law, Vol. 40, No. 3, 2013

27 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2013

Alexander Hughes

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law; Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP

Date Written: May 3, 2013

Abstract

This note analyzes recent developments surrounding the definition of 'foreign official' under the FCPA and proposes a bright-line test for assessing whether an entity qualifies as an 'instrumentality' of a foreign government, thereby rendering its employees foreign officials under the terms of the statute.

The FCPA has been one of the key points of emphasis for enforcement actions by both the SEC and DOJ over the past few years, with the top-10 highest dollar value penalties in the FCPA’s history all being handed down since 2008. Compliance costs for companies have gone up considerably due to this increased emphasis, combined with the uncertainty the statute’s language engenders. This note provides an easily workable test that will eliminate this uncertainty and will promote greater consistency and predictability in the FCPA’s application. This predictability will be especially pronounced in regards to the FCPA's application to partially state-owned enterprises and will allow multinational corporations to do business abroad without worrying about unwittingly violating the FCPA.

Keywords: FCPA, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, SEC enforcement, DOJ enforcement, bribery, foreign, foreign official, instrumentality

JEL Classification: K20, K22, K42, K49, H87, F10, F52, F60, F63, F68, F69

Suggested Citation:

Hughes, Alexander and Hughes, Alexander, Drawing Sensible Borders for the Definition of 'Foreign Official' Under the FCPA (May 3, 2013). American Journal of Criminal Law, Vol. 40, No. 3, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2260564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Compliance &amp; Ethics , Blog
Posted: 2011-08-19
Crossref
Haiti
Haitian-Government-Declaration-Re-Haiti-Teleco (although Bellerive was also Prime Minister at the time of this declaration, he signed it in his capacity as Minister of Justice and Public Safety). 97. Statement of Jean Max Bellerive, Prime Minister, Republic of Haiti
Legal Status of Teleco Posted: 2011-07-26
See Haiti Teleco -From Stunning To Strange, FCPA PROFESSOR Posted: 2011-08-31
Government's subsequent "explanation" were described as being "nothing short of disingenuous, border[ing] on the nonsensical, and are expressly contradicted by the previous correspondence" in the brief filed by the Haitian defendant-and alleged "foreign official Posted: 2013-02-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,601
RANK
631,616
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies