Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Chief Financial Officer's Role in Medium-Sized Firms: Exploratory Evidence from Germany

Journal of International Business & Economics, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 83-92, 2013

9 Pages Posted: 4 May 2013 Last revised: 29 Jul 2013

Martin R. W. Hiebl

University of Siegen; Johannes Kepler University Linz

Herbert Neubauer

Vienna University of Economics and Business

Christine Duller

Johannes Kepler University Linz

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Research on the Chief Financial Officer’s (CFO) role has increased in the last few years, but has so far mainly focused on large firms and neglected the CFO’s role in smaller firms. Therefore, in this paper, we study whether the CFO’s role in medium-sized firms differs from the CFO’s role in large firms. Using a sample of 378 German firms, we investigate the effect of firm size on CFO characteristics, CFO responsibilities and the CFO’s participation in strategic planning. Our findings show that CFOs in medium-sized firms have less often obtained a university degree and less often take responsibility for various finance and accounting functions compared to large firms. We do not find a differing level of CFO participation in strategic planning in dependence of firm size, but we find that after the CEO, the CFO obtains a “number two” position in strategic planning regardless of firm size.

Keywords: Chief Financial Officer, CFO, Role, Characteristics, Responsibilities, Strategic Planning, Medium-Sized Firms, Large Firms, Firm Size, Germany

Suggested Citation:

Hiebl, Martin R. W. and Neubauer, Herbert and Duller, Christine, The Chief Financial Officer's Role in Medium-Sized Firms: Exploratory Evidence from Germany (2013). Journal of International Business & Economics, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 83-92, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2260145
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Ronald C Anderson , David M Reeb
Founding-Family Ownership, Corporate Diversification, and Firm Leverage
The Journal of Law and Economics , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 653 - 684 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J S Armstrong , Terry S Overton
Estimating Nonresponse Bias in Mail Surveys
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 396 - 402 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Ayyagari , Meghana , Thorsten Beck , Asli Demirguc-Kunt
Small and Medium Enterprises Across the Globe
Small Business Economics , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 415 - 434 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Jane Baxter , Wai F Chua
Be(com)ing the chief financial officer of an organisation: Experimenting with Bourdieu's practice theory
Management Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 212 - 230 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,661
RANK
175,588
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reallocation, Firm Turnover, and Efficiency: Selection on Productivity or Profitability?

By Lucia Foster, John Haltiwanger, ...

Reallocation, Firm Turnover, and Efficiency: Selection on Productivity or Profitability?

By Lucia Foster, John Haltiwanger, ...

Measuring and Explaining Management Practices Across Firms and Countries

By Nicholas Bloom and John Van Reenen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies