Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interpretation of Unanticipated News Arrival and Analysts’ Skill

Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 8 May 2013 Last revised: 12 Dec 2015

Amir Rubin

Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Reichman University

Benjamin Segal

Fordham University; Hebrew University of Jerusalem

Dan Segal

Reichman University

Date Written: December 12, 2015

Abstract

Analysts’ functions are divided into discovery and interpretation roles, but separating between the two is non-trivial. We conjecture that analysts’ interpretation skill can be gauged by their forecast revisions following material unanticipated news — in particular following non-earnings 8-K reports, which arrive at the market unexpectedly. We establish that unanticipated 8-Ks are informative for analysts, and find that analysts who are more likely to revise their forecasts following unanticipated 8-Ks provide more timely and accurate forecasts. We document a positive association between analysts’ tendency to react to unanticipated 8-Ks and market reaction to their recommendation changes, suggesting investors prefer these analysts’ opinions.

Keywords: Analysts, Corporate Disclosure, Forecast Error, Unanticipated News, Timeliness, 8-K

JEL Classification: M4, G14, G18, G34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Rubin, Amir and Segal, Benjamin and Segal, Dan, The Interpretation of Unanticipated News Arrival and Analysts’ Skill (December 12, 2015). Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis (JFQA), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2261953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
of Accounting, Auditing and Finance , volume 9 , p. 465 - 483
Crossref
D Hirshleifer , S Lim , S H Teoh
Driven to distraction: Extraneous events and underreaction to earnings news
Journal of Finance , volume 64 , p. 2289 - 2325 Posted: 2009
Crossref
E Hirst , P Hopkins , J Wahlen
Fair values, income measurement, and bank analysts' risk and valuation judgments
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 454 - 473 Posted: 2004
Crossref
H Hong , J Kubik , A Solomon
Security analysts' career concerns and herding of earnings forecasts
Rand Journal of Economics , volume 31 , p. 121 - 144 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
266
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,289
RANK
262,460
7 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

INSEAD Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies