Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: The End of Transfer Pricing?

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 1, 2013

Posted: 8 May 2013

Robert Couzin

Couzin Taylor LLP

Date Written: May 7, 2013

Abstract

This article is based on a lecture delivered at the NYU School of Law in September 2012. It puts into question the viability of the prevailing model for the allocation of income within a multinational enterprise (MNE), the system of transfer pricing based on the arms-length principle. The author likens transfer pricing to a scientific paradigm as discussed by the Historian of Science, Thomas Kuhn, suggesting that its perseverance is due especially to the entrenched interests of it's practitioners in both government and the private sector. At the theoretical level, transfer pricing suffers from a conflict with the reality of the MNE. In practical terms, it is challenged in particular on the grounds of complexity and the attendant cost of administration and compliance. The author briefly canvasses possible solutions to the impasse, focusing on profit splits and formulary apportionment.

Keywords: transfer pricing, policy, international taxation, multinationals, allocation, apportionment

Suggested Citation:

Couzin, Robert, Policy Forum: The End of Transfer Pricing? (May 7, 2013). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261974
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies