Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Benefits of Leasing

Economics Letters, Forthcoming

11 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2013

Timothy J. Bell

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jacob K. Thomas

Yale School of Management

Date Written: May 1, 2013

Abstract

Financial economists view the tax benefits of leasing as a complex function of the tax deductions and income associated with rentals, depreciation, and interest attributed to lessors and lessees facing different tax rates. We offer two ways to simplify that complexity using the concept of present value depreciation, which reflects the decline in an asset’s value (present value of remaining cash flows) over time. We rely on the insight in Samuelson (1964) that tax rates do not matter if depreciation allowed under tax rules equals present value depreciation. We show that tax benefits of leasing, between a high tax rate lessor and zero tax rate lessee, equal the present value of lessor tax shields on a) the difference between actual tax depreciation and tax-neutral depreciation implied by actual rentals, or b) interest expense associated with a “loan” from the lessor to the lessee created by deferring actual lease rents relative to tax-neutral rents implied by actual tax depreciation.

Keywords: Tax Benefits, Leasing, Economic Depreciation

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Bell, Timothy J. and Thomas, Jacob, Tax Benefits of Leasing (May 1, 2013). Economics Letters, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
J C Ahlstrom , I C Engelson
The Economics of Leveraged Leasing
Equipment Leasing / Leveraged Leasing , volume 810 Posted: 1999
J R Graham , M L Lemmon , J S Schallheim
Debt, leases, taxes, and the endogeneity of corporate tax status
Journal of Finance , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 131 - 162 Posted: 1998
Crossref
M H Miller , C W Upton
Leasing, buying and the cost of capital services
Journal of Finance , issue 31 , p. 761 - 86 Posted: 1976
Crossref
P Samuelson
Tax deductibility of economic depreciation to insure invariant valuations
Journal of Political Economy , volume 72 , p. 14 - 18 Posted: 1964
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,220
RANK
327,319
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies