Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The American's Tax Experience in Canada

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 1, 2013

Posted: 7 May 2013

Kevyn Nightingale

MNP, LLP

David Turchen

MNP, LLP

Abstract

Only two governments in the world - the United States and Eritrea - subject their citizens to comprehensive worldwide taxation regardless of where they live. There are more Americans living in Canada than in any other foreign country. While the two countries have generally similar income tax systems, there are a number of areas of incompatibility. As a result, US citizens living in Canada encounter significant limitations on their ability to carry on their activities or plan their affairs, compared with non-US citizens. In addition, the reporting burden imposed by the US Internal Revenue Service is heavy, and growing. A more aggressive enforcement policy in recent years has induced increasing numbers of Americans abroad to relinquish their US citizenship or green-card status. This article discusses the history of this phenomenon, and the tax consequences for Americans in Canada who give up their US status.

Keywords: Expatriation: The American's Tax Experience in Canada

Suggested Citation:

Nightingale, Kevyn and Turchen, David, The American's Tax Experience in Canada. Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 1, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261405
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies