Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rethinking the Source of the Arm's-Length Transfer Pricing Problem

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2013, pp. 425-459

35 Pages Posted: 8 May 2013

Ilan Benshalom

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2013

Abstract

Almost everyone agrees that the arm’s-length standard is inapt for sourcing a multinational enterprise’s (MNE) income. At the same time, all consider it unlikely that tax authorities will explicitly depart from it any time soon. This essay tries to overcome the policy deadlock by inquiring whether the arm’s-length standard could be applied in a more accurate, consistent, and difficult-to-manipulate way. Traditional transfer-pricing scholarship identifies intra-group intangibles transactions and debt-related transactions as the root of the current regime’s vulnerability. This essay focuses on financial transactions and takes a new approach by noting that equity (rather than affiliated-debt) investments are the core of the sourcing problem. These equity transactions provide the parent corporation with control, which is antithetical to the arm’s length standard. Control implies relatedness; dividend policy of private subsidiaries that is designed to meet the needs of the parent corporation is, therefore, inherently related and cannot be at arm’s length.

To overcome this problem, the author proposes maintaining the arm’s-length standard but applying it more rigidly — that is, to re-characterize intra-group equity investments as long-term subordinated debt (with imputed interest rates). This essay then explains how tax authorities can use this re-characterization to reduce income-shifting manipulation and to simplify many existing international tax arrangements. The proposal offers a relatively cheap, consistent, and accurate way to allocate MNE income, which is the building block in each of the various international tax policies that different countries employ. It should not be seen as associated with any specific agenda with respect to how MNEs’ foreign income should be taxed. Instead, the essay offers policymakers a tool that could help them incrementally improve all existing regimes and suggested reforms with respect to the taxation of foreign income.

Suggested Citation:

Benshalom, Ilan, Rethinking the Source of the Arm's-Length Transfer Pricing Problem (May 1, 2013). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2013, pp. 425-459, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261599
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,898
RANK
151,124
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies