Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why 'Fair Value' is the Rule: How a Controversial Accounting Approach Gained Support

Harvard Business Review, Vol. 91, No. 3, 2013

Harvard Business School Research Paper

Posted: 10 May 2013

Karthik Ramanna

University of Oxford - Blavatnik School of Government

Date Written: March 1, 2013

Abstract

For the past two decades, fair-value accounting — the practice of measuring assets and liabilities at estimates of their current values — has been on the ascent. This marks a major departure from the centuries-old tradition of keeping books at historical cost. It also has implications across the world of business, because the accounting basis — whether fair value or historical cost — affects investment choices and management decisions, with consequences for aggregate economic activity. This article discusses the role of investment banking and investment management industry veterans on the Financial Accounting Standards Board in the growth of fair-value accounting. It raises the possibility of special-interest capture of accounting regulation by segments of the financial-services industry.

Keywords: Fair Value, FASB, finance, politics, Accounting, Fair Value Accounting, Financial History, Financial Reporting, Accounting Industry, Financial Services Industry, United States

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Karthik, Why 'Fair Value' is the Rule: How a Controversial Accounting Approach Gained Support (March 1, 2013). Harvard Business Review, Vol. 91, No. 3, 2013, Harvard Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2262439
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,624
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies