Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Through a Latte, Darkly: Starbucks's Stateless Income Planning

Tax Notes, June 24, 2013, pp. 1515-1535

USC CLEO Research Paper No. C13-9

USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 13-10

22 Pages Posted: 14 May 2013 Last revised: 6 Aug 2014

Edward D. Kleinbard

University of Southern California Gould School of Law, Deceased

Date Written: July 15, 2013

Abstract

In this report, Kleinbard reviews the recent Starbucks Corp. U.K. tax controversy (including a parliamentary inquiry), which revolved around the intersection of the company’s consistent unprofitability in the United Kingdom with large deductible intragroup payments to Dutch, Swiss, and U.S. affiliates. He also examines the company’s more recent submission to the House Ways and Means Committee. From those, Kleinbard draws two lessons.

First, if Starbucks can organize itself as a successful stateless income generator, any multinational company can. Starbucks follows a classic brick-and-mortar retail business model, with direct customer interactions in thousands of ‘‘high street’’ locations in high-tax countries around the world. Nonetheless, it appears that Starbucks is subject to a much lower effective tax rate on its non-U.S. income than would be predicted by looking at a weighted average of the tax rates in the countries where it does business.

Second, the Starbucks story demonstrates the fundamental opacity of international tax planning, in which neither investors in a public company nor the tax authorities in any particular jurisdiction have a clear picture of what the company is up to. It is inappropriate to expect source country tax authorities to engage in elaborate games of 20 Tax Questions, requiring detailed knowledge of the tax laws and financial accounting rules of many other jurisdictions, to evaluate the probative value of a taxpayer’s claim that its intragroup dealings necessarily are at arm’s length. U.S.-based multinational companies owe a similar duty of candor and transparency when dealing with Congress.

The remedy begins with transparency toward tax authorities and policymakers, through which those institutions have a clear and complete picture of the global tax planning structures of multinational companies, and the implications of those structures for generating stateless income. National governments should recognize their common interest in that regard and promptly require their tax and securities agencies to promulgate rules providing a uniform, worldwide disclosure matrix for actual tax burdens by jurisdiction. As a first step, the United States should enforce the rule requiring U.S. companies to quantify the U.S. tax cost of repatriating their offshore permanently reinvested earnings.

Suggested Citation:

Kleinbard, Edward D., Through a Latte, Darkly: Starbucks's Stateless Income Planning (July 15, 2013). Tax Notes, June 24, 2013, pp. 1515-1535, USC CLEO Research Paper No. C13-9, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 13-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2264384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Michael P. Donohoe , Gary A. McGill , Edmund Outslay
Back to the Drawing Board: The Structural and Accounting Consequences of a Switch to a Territorial Tax System
National Tax Journal, Vol. 66, No. 3, 2013 · 43 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2014 · Downloads: 247
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eric J. Toder , Alan D. Viard
Major Surgery Needed: A Call for Structural Reform of the U.S. Corporate Income Tax
52 Pages · Posted: 20 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 198
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rosanne Altshuler , Stephen E. Shay , Eric J. Toder
Lessons the United States Can Learn from Other Countries’ Territorial Systems for Taxing Income of Multinational Corporations
57 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2015 · Downloads: 533
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gerhard Vorwold
The Global Formulary Apportionment (GFA) Model - Concept of Changed Structures in the Taxation of Multinational Enterprises
73 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 205
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,065
ABSTRACT VIEWS
18,880
RANK
9,335
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies