Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding IFRS Adoption: A Review of Current Debate and Consequences

FIRN Research Paper

32 Pages Posted: 16 May 2013

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Peter Clarkson

University of Queensland - Business School; Simon Fraser University (SFU) - Beedie School of Business; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: May 16, 2013

Abstract

The adoption of IFRS was intended to improve accounting information quality and ensure greater comparability and transparency of financial reporting around the world. This review has sought to recognize and understand the impacts of IFRS adoption on numerous areas of capitalism. Overall, the implementation of IFRS has been a great success reducing information asymmetry, improving the quality of information for users, enhancing transparency and comparability and positively impacting on capital markets. Generally, the positive effects of IFRS have been associated with firms in strong enforcement regimes that have had incentives to comply. Enforcement of IFRS was a recurring theme throughout the literature reviewed, and consequently, is an area that requires further development. To elaborate, there is a need to develop a mechanism for the enforcement of accounting standards. To this end, there is also a need for collaboration between standard setters and regulatory bodies across the world to maximize the effectiveness of international accounting standards.

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Monem, Reza M. and Clarkson, Peter, Understanding IFRS Adoption: A Review of Current Debate and Consequences (May 16, 2013). FIRN Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2265728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2265728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
148 References
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and Stock Returns
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Anwer S. Ahmed , Michael Neel , Dechun Wang
Does Mandatory Adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research 30 (4) (2013): 1344-1372 Posted: 10 Nov 2009 Last revised: 8 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
H Ashbaugh
Non-US firms accounting standards choices
Journal of Accounting & Public Policy , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,634
RANK
66,006
6 Citations
148 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies