Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Jabberwocky: Capital Gains, Intangible Property, and Tax

Hofstra Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 359, 2012

40 Pages Posted: 17 May 2013

Steve Black

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: May 16, 2012

Abstract

In the current US tax system, capital gains are taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income. What does that mean for the sale of IP and intangible assets? Is it possible to convert ordinary income to capital gain by changing the form of the transaction? This article will address anomalies in the tax characterization of intangible assets. Four cases will be presented, each of which, arguably, could consistently produce capital gains. As will be shown, however, the treatment of these cases (and others) is anything but consistent. At the conclusion of the four cases, it should be clear that the inconsistency is systemic, which in turn will lead us to ask whether (1) none of these intangible assets should receive capital gains treatment or (2) whether all of them should.

Keywords: tax, capital gains, taxation, intangible assets, intellectual property, IP

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H25, H21, H71, K34, O34, D23, K11

Suggested Citation:

Black, Steve, Capital Gains Jabberwocky: Capital Gains, Intangible Property, and Tax (May 16, 2012). Hofstra Law Review, Vol. 41, No. 359, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2266063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
. . . Hypothetical
Crossref
. . . History
Crossref
E What
. . B. Rationale
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
501
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,731
RANK
129,393
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies