Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Imputation, the Adverse Interest Exception, and the Curious Case of the Restatement (Third) of Agency

University of Colorado Law Review, Vol. 84, No. 2, 2013

62 Pages Posted: 18 May 2013

Mark Loewenstein

University of Colorado Law School

Date Written: February 9, 2013

Abstract

The imputation doctrine in the common law of agency provides that knowledge of an agent acquired in the course of the agency relationship is imputed to the principal. An important exception to the imputation doctrine, known as the adverse interest exception, provides that knowledge is not imputed if it is acquired by the agent in a course of conduct that is entirely adverse to the principal. These doctrines play an important role in sorting out liability when senior management of a corporation engages in a financial fraud that harms the company. Typically, new management is brought in and it sues the company’s outside service providers (auditors, attorneys, and investment bankers), alleging that their negligence (or, in some cases, intentional wrongdoing) was a proximate cause of the fraud’s success. The defense invokes the imputation doctrine — senior management’s knowledge of the fraud should be imputed to the company — and in pari delicto. The plaintiff responds that the adverse interest exception makes imputation inappropriate and, therefore, in pari delicto is inapplicable. At this point, the issue is joined and, historically, the outside service providers have prevailed. This settled law may have been altered by the recently adopted Restatement (Third) of Agency. This article explores the history of imputation and the adverse interest exception, the evolution and stance of the Restatement (Third) of Agency as it relates to these issues, and how various policy considerations should inform the legal doctrines at issue.

Keywords: agency, adverse interest exception, imputation

JEL Classification: K10, K12, K19, K22, K29

Suggested Citation:

Loewenstein, Mark J., Imputation, the Adverse Interest Exception, and the Curious Case of the Restatement (Third) of Agency (February 9, 2013). University of Colorado Law Review, Vol. 84, No. 2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2266640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
re Caremark Int'l Inc. Derivative Litig., 698 A.2d 959 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Justice Rivera-Soto quoted from amici briefs filed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the New Jersey Society of Certified Public Accountants: "In addition to causing a misallocation of liability, allowing a company's management to shift the consequences of its own executive's fraud to its accountants where the auditor is not alleged to have assisted in that fraud may diminish management's incentive to exercise due care in its own responsibilities
Claire Galofaro, Bookkeeper pleads guilty to bank fraud, identity theft, BRISTOL HERALD COURIER (Va.) , volume 904 Posted: 2010
Ex-bookkeeper in Detroit district gets prison term for fraud
AM. SCH. & UNIV Posted: 2011
See J Edward H Russo &amp; Paul J , Schoemaker
WINNING DECISIONS: GETTING IT RIGHT THE FIRST TIME , volume 79 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,229
RANK
265,571
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies