Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency of Directors’ Attributes: Improving Proxy Materials in Europe

Financial Law Institute Working Paper Series No. 2013-01

21 Pages Posted: 21 May 2013 Last revised: 24 May 2013

Christoph Van der Elst

Tilburg Law School; Ghent University - Department of Business Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 15, 2013

Abstract

The composition of the board of directors is considered key for the success of the company. The current approach to compose this board is to provide shareholders and investors with individual information of the skills and experience of (candidate) directors. The information is insufficient to qualify whether the candidate will enrich the board. Shareholders and investors are also deprived of information which composition the board considers appropriate to achieve the corporate goals. These problems can be solved with an appropriate disclosure framework. The skills and experience of the current board must be provided as well as the qualities that the new candidates will provide to the board. An example how a disclosure framework for competent boards must look like, is presented. It provides incentives for active ownership. Shareholders can vote for a specific board structure which in their opinion can best achieve the corporate goals.

Keywords: corporate governance, board composition, board election, director expertise, director skills

JEL Classification: G30, G34, L22

Suggested Citation:

Van der Elst, Christoph, Transparency of Directors’ Attributes: Improving Proxy Materials in Europe (April 15, 2013). Financial Law Institute Working Paper Series No. 2013-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2267479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2267479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
A Theory of Friendly Boards, ECGI working paper nr , volume 100 Posted: 2005
Association of British Insurers , volume 54 Posted: 2012-12
J Fanto , L Solan , J Darley
Justifying Board Diversity
North Carolina Law Review , p. 901 - 935 Posted: 2011
Committee on Corporate Laws (American Bar Association), Corporate Directors Guidebook Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,174
RANK
518,107
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Justifying Board Diversity

By James A. Fanto, Lawrence M. Solan, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies