Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mark to Market Accounting as a Magnifier of Financial Crises

Financial Aspects of Recent Trends in the Global Economy, Vol II, pp. 110-126, R. Mirdala, ed., ASERS Publishing, 2013

16 Pages Posted: 26 May 2013

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Snezana Popovcic Avric

Singidunum University

Vule Mizdrakovic

Singidunum University

Marina Djenic

Singidunum University

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

The main objective of this paper is to provide an analysis on whether mark-to-market accounting magnifies financial crises. Even though the results of numerous studies on this topic offer various conclusions, the majority of them conclude that fair value accounting, or mark-to-market accounting, does not cause financial crises. Most studies that had similar conclusions dealt with the 2006-2008 period, whereas we focus our research on period from 1881 to present day. Primarily, we will point out the historical context of the implementation of mark-to-market accounting and consequences it has, since it seems that some lessons from the past have been forgotten. We consider the long term relationship between US GDP and the S&P 500 index values and key historical developments to conclude that implementation of mark-to-market accounting contributes to creating of asset bubbles and assets overestimations. Even though mark-to-market accounting does not cause financial crises, it does magnify fundamental procyclicality which is inherent in efficient markets.

Keywords: Mark to market accounting, Fair value accounting, Financial crisis

JEL Classification: M41, G01

Suggested Citation:

Stanisic, Nemanja and Popovcic Avric, Snezana and Mizdrakovic, Vule and Djenic, Marina, Mark to Market Accounting as a Magnifier of Financial Crises (October 1, 2012). Financial Aspects of Recent Trends in the Global Economy, Vol II, pp. 110-126, R. Mirdala, ed., ASERS Publishing, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2269851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
G Benston
Required Disclosure and the Stock Market: An Evaluation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
American Economic Review , volume 63 , issue 1 , p. 132 - 155 Posted: 1973
A Chea
Fair Value Accounting: Its Impacts on Financial Reporting and How It Can Be Enhanced to Provide More Clarity and Reliability of Information for Users of Financial Statements
International journal of business and social science , volume 2 , issue 20 , p. 12 - 19 Posted: 2011
A Dorestani , S Aliabadi , H Chen
Fair Value Determination: A Conceptual Framework , volume 18 , p. 93 - 107 Posted: 2011
T Fahnestock , E Bostwick
An Analysis of the Fair Value Controversy
Proceedings of ASBBS , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 910 - 919 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
RANK
179,717
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: International Financial Markets - Volatility & Financial Crises eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies