Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Current Environmental Strategy Reporting Model: What Can Be Learned from Corporate Reports?

Accounting Information Systems for Decision Making, Lecture Notes in Information Systems and Organisation Volume 3, 2013, pp 93-120

Posted: 25 May 2013

Raffaele Fiorentino

University of Naples Parthenope

Stefano Garzella

University of Naples Parthenope

Date Written: November 30, 2012

Abstract

This paper explores the information on environmental strategy. Our interest is to understand whether corporate reports are useful to assess a firm’s environmental performance. We developed an empirical investigation of annual reports and social reports of large public firms. Using content analysis, our findings show major differences among companies in sensitive, manufacturing/service and financial sectors in terms of: integration of environmental issues into corporate reporting model; disclosure of environmental information. We offer some relevant insights on the overlooked relation between environmental disclosure and environmental performance and on the predominant use of environmental qualitative and/or non financial measures. The study shows that there is: a lack of consideration paid to the relationship between environmental strategies and environmental performance; high variability and limited standardization in environmental practices. Consequently the comparability of environmental performance is very low. Furthermore, integrating theoretical and empirical findings, we suggest some implications to improve environmental disclosure practices.

Keywords: Environmental reporting, environmental strategies, environmental performance, green management

JEL Classification: M00, M4

Suggested Citation:

Fiorentino, Raffaele and Garzella, Stefano, The Current Environmental Strategy Reporting Model: What Can Be Learned from Corporate Reports? (November 30, 2012). Accounting Information Systems for Decision Making, Lecture Notes in Information Systems and Organisation Volume 3, 2013, pp 93-120, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2269618
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,028
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies