Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Reality: Rethinking Partnership Distributions

Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, Vol. 47, 2014, Forthcoming

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-21

77 Pages Posted: 24 May 2013 Last revised: 23 Jul 2014

Andrea Monroe

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: May 23, 2013

Abstract

Partnerships play an increasingly vital role in the federal income tax. Yet partnership taxation is deeply flawed, with complicated provisions that strain the voluntary compliance mechanism on which all federal income tax relies. This article considers one of the most difficult challenges facing partnership taxation: the treatment of distributions.

Distributions are ubiquitous transactions that transfer cash or property from a partnership to a partner. Although distributions vary dramatically in their purpose and the kind of property involved, their tax treatment follows a unitary approach. The principle of “nonrecognition” means that distributions do not produce any immediate tax consequences. This nonrecognition premise has caused great abuse and complexity, as partnerships have used distributions as tax shelter vehicles, and the government has responded with narrow anti-abuse “fixes” that are often counterproductive. Calls to reform these anti-abuse provisions have been a constant presence throughout a half-century of tax scholarship.

This article argues that the existing scholarship largely misconstrues the problem with partnership distributions. The core difficulty is the nonrecognition premise at the system’s foundation, the very problem that particular anti-abuse provisions were designed to combat. Meaningful reform of partnership distributions thus requires a fundamental rethinking of nonrecognition and its role in partnership taxation.

This article offers an alternative vision of partnership distributions, one without the imprint of nonrecognition. It reimagines partnership distributions from a recognition-based perspective, which would ground the tax treatment of these transactions in economic reality. Of particular importance are liquidating distributions that involve the complete or partial termination of a partner’s investment in the partnership. Consistent with their commercial substance, liquidating distributions should be treated as taxable exchanges in which the partner receives cash or property from the partnership in exchange for relinquishing her interest in the partnership and its underlying property. Under a recognition-based approach, partnership distributions would indeed look very different than they do today, simpler, more equitable, and more stable.

Keywords: partnership taxation, subchapter K, tax reform, partnership distributions, partnership liquidations, business entity tax, tax complexity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Monroe, Andrea, Taxing Reality: Rethinking Partnership Distributions (May 23, 2013). Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review, Vol. 47, 2014, Forthcoming, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2269091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
E G See , Am , Law Inst , false
Crossref
Burke
, volume 11
Llp Ernst &amp; Young
Crossref
Rebecca S Rudnick
Enforcing the Fundamental Premises of Partnership Taxation, 22 HOFSTRA L. REV , volume 229 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,334
RANK
175,068
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies