Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of a Predictive S Corporation Premium Model and the Behavioral Considerations in Acquisitions of Private Corporations

17 Pages Posted: 24 May 2013

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: May 23, 2013

Abstract

The valuation of S Corporations has been a source of great controversy since the beginning of the recent decade when the US Tax Court ruled in Gross v. Commissioner that the net income of S Corporations should not be tax-affected in the valuation process. The benefit of removing a level of taxation has been translated by the Tax Court as an inherent increase in value for S Corporations regardless of transaction specific conditions that may or may not warrant a valuation premium. This paper addresses the issue of when an S Corporation premium exists though the application of a moderated multiple regression model developed by this author in prior research using actual transaction data. The objective of this paper is to introduce the application of the model in various transaction specific conditions when valuing S Corporations.

Keywords: Valuation, Courts, Forensic Accounting, Tax

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., The Application of a Predictive S Corporation Premium Model and the Behavioral Considerations in Acquisitions of Private Corporations (May 23, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2269311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2269311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R J Alerding , Y Karam , T Chamberlin
S Corporation Premiums Revisited: the Erikson-Wang Myth
Business Valuation Update , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 3 Posted: 2003
David J Denis , Atulya Sarin
Taxes and Relative Valuation of S Corporations and C Corporations
Journal of Applied Finance. Fall/Winter. Pages , p. 5 - 16 Posted: 2002
J A Digabriele
A Valuation Dilemma: Are S Corporations worth more than Otherwise Identical C Corporations? The Forensic Examiner , volume 12 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2003
J A Digabriele
An Empirical Walk Down Valuation Way: Are the Valuation Methods of Closely Held Companies Chosen by The Court a Function of the Type of Case and Level of Court?
Journal of Legal Economics , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 39 - 64 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
496,121
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies