Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forum: International Financial Reporting Standards are Coming: Are You Ready?

Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 7, No. 1, 2008

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-151

Posted: 2 Jul 2013

Peter Martin

Independent

Tim Forristal

Independent

Réal Labelle

HEC Montréal - Stephen A. Jarislowsky Chair in Governance

Vaughan S. Radcliffe

University of Western Ontario - Ivey Business School

James C. Gaa

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Linda Mezon

Independent

Date Written: May 1, 2007

Abstract

In June 2006, shortly after the Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) announced that Canada would be adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Canadian Academic Accounting Association sponsored a session entitled “International Financial Reporting Standards Are Coming: Are You Ready?” and invited presentations on the topic by representatives of the AcSB, practitioners, and academics with diverse teaching and research perspectives. The session included an overview of the anticipated challenges arising from the AcSB's strategy for the adoption of IFRS in Canada for the business community and the implications for accounting education and research. This paper summarizes the presentations at the forum.

Keywords: Accounting education, IFRS, Transition to IFRS, conversion aux IFRS, formation comptable, IFRS

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Peter and Forristal, Tim and Labelle, Réal and Racliffe, Vaughan S. and Gaa, James C. and Mezon, Linda, Forum: International Financial Reporting Standards are Coming: Are You Ready? (May 1, 2007). Accounting Perspectives, Vol. 7, No. 1, 2008, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-151, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2270664
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,092
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies