Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firms' Opaqueness and Corporate Cash Holdings

64 Pages Posted: 30 May 2013 Last revised: 23 Aug 2013

Felipe Cortes

D'Amore-McKim School of Business-Northeastern University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 2013

Abstract

Although existing theories predict a causal link between informational frictions in financial markets and a firm's choice of asset liquidity, the lack of an exogenous and clean measure of informational frictions hinders the precise identification of this link. Using the discontinuous requirement of financial reporting introduced by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we identify a causal effect of informational frictions on the holding of liquid assets. By employing the cash ratio as a measure of corporate liquidity, we show that firms that comply with Section 404 and provide more reliable information to the financial markets reduce their holding of liquid assets compared to observationally similar firms. In the cross-section, the reduction in the cash ratio is more pronounced among firms that face financial constraints and have weaker governance. This is consistent with the fact that such firms incur a high opportunity cost for funds and is consistent with the view that SOX reduces agency conflicts through increased controls. Finally, firms that comply with Section 404 and hold less cash exhibit higher R&D expenditures relative to non-compliant firms. This difference sheds light on the opportunity costs of holding cash.

Keywords: Cash Holdings, Opaqueness, SOX 404, Regression Discontinuity

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Cortes, Felipe, Firms' Opaqueness and Corporate Cash Holdings (August 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2271860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
A Albuquerque , J L Zhu
The sarbanes-oxley act and corporate investment: New evidence from a natural experiment
Available at SSRN Posted: 2012
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial constraints, asset tangibility, and corporate investment
Review of Financial Studies , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Arping , Z Sautner
Did sox section 404 make firms less opaque? evidence from cross-listed firms*
Contemporary Accounting Research Posted: 2012
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of sox internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,138
RANK
216,737
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies