Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Governance

George Washington Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, 2013

Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-05-01

24 Pages Posted: 30 May 2013

Hillary A. Sale

Georgetown University Law Center; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: April 2013

Abstract

This Article develops a theory of public governance as a form of publicness by exploring corporate governance and decision making, and developing them with a more textured understanding of the nature of corporations and their role. It does so through the lens of two recently enacted federal statues, Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank, and by deconstructing the “private” zone and reconceiving it with an understanding of publicness. Corporate actors who govern without this deeper understanding of their roles and relationships lose their self-regulation privileges. The most recent increase in the federalization of corporate governance occurred when corporate actors failed to exercise their choices with an understanding of the nature of publicness. They took private ordering for granted. They treated it as a right rather than a privilege. They failed to grasp the actual and potential roles of the media, stakeholders, politicians, and others who wanted changes in the distribution of corporate power and who could succeed after scandals. Publicness, both as a process and an outcome, grows when corporate actors are greedy, when they cheat, and when they fail. The resulting crises and scandals become the vehicle for publicness. Simply put, corporate failures expose “private” choices. Actors outside of the corporation and Wall Street scrutinize the failures. Think Occupy Wall Street and bloggers more generally. The scrutiny and concomitant increase in publicness make transparent the privileged nature of the corporate private zone. They reveal the lawmakers’ choices about private ordering and self-regulation. They highlight the spaces not yet legally defined: those that were omitted. They create pressure for more reform and public governance. The result is more publicness.

Suggested Citation:

Sale, Hillary A., Public Governance (April 2013). George Washington Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, 2013, Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-05-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
St J Wall
Ineffective oversight of public-company audits has damaged [investor] confidence. [The Board] is necessary to help restore faith in our markets and in the accounting profession , p. 137 - 138 Posted: 2002-06-19
Id
673 A.2d 148, 157 (Del. 1996) (holding that directors could decide for themselves both whether a fiduciary breach was implicated in a decision and whether to
138. See also
See Thompson & Sale , p. 860 - 861
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
370
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,263
RANK
184,099
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies