Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'How Can I Help You?' Perceived Service Orientation of Tax Authorities and Tax Compliance

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2013 - 02

34 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2013

Katharina Gangl

University of Göttingen; Zeppelin University

Stephan Muehlbacher

University of Vienna - Department of Psychology

Manon de Groot

Independent

Sjoerd Goslinga

Independent

Eva B. Hofmann

University of Vienna

Christoph Kogler

University of Vienna - Department of Psychology

Gerrit Antonides

Wageningen University

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Date Written: May 29, 2013

Abstract

Research on tax behavior has recognized the necessity of changing tax authorities’ approach from enforcement to service orientation. However, empirical investigations of the impact of perceived service orientation on tax compliance are scarce. The present study draws conclusions from survey data of representative samples of 807 Dutch private taxpayers and 1377 entrepreneurs. Perceived service orientation was found strongly related to tax compliance. Furthermore, the link between perceived service orientation and tax compliance is mediated by perceived trustworthiness of authorities. We are confident that taxpayers who perceive a greater service orientation will be more willing to contribute their taxes.

Keywords: Service orientation, good governance, tax administration, trust, tax compliance

JEL Classification: H21, H26, H30

Suggested Citation:

Gangl, Katharina and Gangl, Katharina and Muehlbacher, Stephan and de Groot, Manon and Goslinga, Sjoerd and Hofmann, Eva B. and Kogler, Christoph and Antonides, Gerrit and Kirchler, Erich, 'How Can I Help You?' Perceived Service Orientation of Tax Authorities and Tax Compliance (May 29, 2013). WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2013 - 02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2271574 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2271574
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
M G Allingham , A Sandmo , A
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , B R Jackson , M Mckee
Fiscal Exchange, Collective Decision Institutions, and Tax Compliance
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 285 - 303 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J Alm , T Cherry , M Jones , M Mckee
Taxpayer Information Assistance Services and Tax Compliance Behavior , volume 31 , p. 577 - 586 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Alm , B Torgler
Do Ethics Matter? Tax Compliance and Morality
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 101 , issue 4 , p. 635 - 651 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,006
RANK
134,863
19 Citations
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies