Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuing Fractional Interests in Art for Estate Tax Purposes

Tax Notes, Vol. 139, No. 9, 2013

4 Pages Posted: 31 May 2013

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: May 30, 2013

Abstract

It is difficult to value fractional interests in art because there is virtually no market in those interests. Nevertheless, the Tax Court in Estate of Elkins valued the decedent’s fractional interests in multiple artworks, which the decedent and his children highly cherished. First, the court addressed the restricted agreements under section 2703 and then the court determined the value of decedent’s interests in the art.

Keywords: valuation, estate tax, fractional interests, fractional interests in art, LLC, section 2703, restricted agreements, discounts, Elkins

JEL Classification: K11, K34, H2, H10, H20, H22, H23, H24, H29

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., Valuing Fractional Interests in Art for Estate Tax Purposes (May 30, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 139, No. 9, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2272006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,035
RANK
385,002
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies