Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality Guidance of the Major Public Accounting Firms

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2013 Last revised: 24 Jul 2014

Aasmund Eilifsen

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: July 23, 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the materiality guidance for eight of the largest U.S. and international public accounting firms. Knowledge of how materiality guidance is integrated into a firm’s methodology is important for accounting and auditing researchers as well as for practitioners, regulators, and educators. Our results show a high level of consistency across the firms in terms of the quantitative benchmarks (e.g., income before taxes, total assets or revenues, and total equity) used to determine overall materiality, the related percentages applied to those benchmarks, the percentages applied to overall materiality for determining tolerable misstatement, and what constitutes a clearly trivial misstatement. We also find that the firms’ guidance for evaluating detected misstatements including qualitative factors and firm guidance for group audits is consistent across firms. However, there are differences in how the firms consider the possibility of undetected misstatements when evaluating detected misstatements. The results of this study provide important insights into implementation of standards and valuable information for future research and education.

Keywords: Materiality, Tolerable misstatement, Misstatements, Group audits

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Eilifsen, Aasmund and Messier Jr, William F., Materiality Guidance of the Major Public Accounting Firms (July 23, 2014). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2274845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2274845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Clarification and Convergence. An AICPA Auditing Standards Board Project Posted: 2008-07
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2013. Auditing Standards. Available at www.aicpa.org
Crossref
Auditing Practices Board (APB)
Consultation Paper: Aggressive Earnings Management. London: APB, September. Available at www.frc.org.uk/Our Posted: 2001
Work/Publications/APB/Aggressive-Earnings-Management.pdf
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,203
RANK
16,692
39 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

SEC's XBRL Voluntary Program on Edgar: The Case for Quality Assurance

By J. Efrim Boritz and Won Gyun No

A Comparison of XBRL Filings to Corporate 10-Ks - Evidence from the Voluntary Filing Program

By Jon W. Bartley, Y. Al Chen, ...

Quality of Data Standards: Empirical Findings from XBRL

By Hongwei (harry) Zhu and Liuliu Fu

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies