Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Entrepreneurship in Mature Fields: The Big Five Accounting Firms

Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 49, Issue 1, pp. 27-48, 2006

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-510

Posted: 5 Jun 2013

Royston Greenwood

University of Alberta - Department of Strategic Management and Organization

Roy Suddaby

Peter B Gustavson School of Business

Date Written: Feb 1, 2005

Abstract

This study examines change initiated from the center of mature organizational fields. As such, it addresses the paradox of embedded agency — that is, the paradox of how actors enact changes to the context by which they, as actors, are shaped. The change examined is the introduction of a new organizational form. Combining network location theory and dialectical theory, we identify four dynamics that form a process model of elite institutional entrepreneurship.

Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Research, Organizational Change, Accounting Firms, Management, Agency Theory, Organizational Research, New Business Enterprises, Institutional Theory (Sociology), Organizational Behavior, Knowledge Management, Dialectic

Suggested Citation:

Greenwood, Royston and Suddaby, Roy Robert, Institutional Entrepreneurship in Mature Fields: The Big Five Accounting Firms (Feb 1, 2005). Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 49, Issue 1, pp. 27-48, 2006, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-510, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2274380
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,821
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies