Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fairness: A Legal Principle in EU Tax Law?

Hemels, S.J.C., ‘Fairness: A Legal Principle in EU Tax Law?’ in: C. Brokelind, Principles of Law: Function, Status and Impact in EU Tax Law, IBFD Amsterdam 2014, p. 413-437.

20 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2013 Last revised: 29 Mar 2015

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: August 20, 2013

Abstract

In the public debate on taxation, fairness has become a dominant issue over the past few years. In recent communications, the European Commission refers to ‘fairness’ as well and uses it as a benchmark. Legal philosophers have developed a definition of the principle of fairness which focuses on the relations between tax payers and expectations they have of each other. It is this concept of fairness which seems to be dominant in the current public debate on fairness: it is not so much the tax system itself which is debated, but the use some tax payers make of this tax system resulting in other tax payers having to pay more. The question is whether we can distinguish such a principle of fairness in EU tax law as well. This paper analyses this question by taking as a starting point the discussion on fairness in legal philosophy. Next, it is analyses whether this principle is used in EU legislation and by the European Commission. Finally case law of the ECJ is analysed: does the principle of fairness as developed by legal philosophers and used by the European Commission play a role in case law of the ECJ, in other words, is fairness a legal principle of EU tax law? It is concluded that the principle of fairness as developed by Hart and Rawls is currently not a principle of EU tax law. The author does not expect it to become a principle of EU tax law soon. However, the concept of fairness and the emphasis which is put on it both by the European Commission, politicians and NGOs might influence the borders and impact of the principle of abuse of law which can be regarded as a restricted reflection of the principle of fairness.

Keywords: fairness, tax law

JEL Classification: H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, Fairness: A Legal Principle in EU Tax Law? (August 20, 2013). Hemels, S.J.C., ‘Fairness: A Legal Principle in EU Tax Law?’ in: C. Brokelind, Principles of Law: Function, Status and Impact in EU Tax Law, IBFD Amsterdam 2014, p. 413-437., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2276626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2276626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
De Haan Beheer BV and Inspecteur der Invoerrechten en Accijnzen; ECJ 22 March 2012 Case C-506/09 P, Portuguese Republic v Transnáutica -Transportes e Navegação SA
ECJ Posted: 1999-02-25
Nordspedizionieri di Danielis Livio & C. Snc, Livio Danielis and Domenico D'Alessandro v Commission of the European Communities
ECJ , volume 29 Posted: 1996-01-18
This similarity is also clear from the fact that the Court referred to the De Haan case which was on article 905 in ECJ 29
British American Tobacco Manufacturing BV v Hauptzollamt Krefeld which regarded article , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 2004-04
Reiner Woltmann, trading as 'Trans-Ex-Import and Hauptzollamt Potsdam, para 18 and ECJ , volume 52 Posted: 1999-02-25
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
500
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,610
RANK
129,714
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies