Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Weighted Mean Model for Operational Risk Assessment

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 12, No. 1, July 2013

13 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2013

Yundong Huang

St. Edwards University; Murray State University

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

David Durr

Murray State University - College of Business

Date Written: June 7, 2013

Abstract

Assessing operational risk, particularly related to internal control, is increasingly important to business firms. This is especially the case for publicly-traded companies that are engaged in multinational operations, which involve additional complexity and risk. In the United States, for example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires public companies to document adequate internal control in their annual report. However, there is no standard or uniformly accepted solution for internal risk analysis. Several complex methods have been introduced in the academic field. These complex methods, while theoretically sound, may be problematic in practice due to the necessity of sufficient historical data. When insufficient data are available for measuring operational risk, most of the models, which are based on probability theory, do not work. As a consequence, in most companies’ annual reports, the internal risk disclosure is still rather ambiguous and intuitive. In this paper, we will present a simple weighted mean model that can be used for internal risk assessment. This weighted mean model offers an approach that is relatively easy to use and overcomes deficiencies of more complex models. This model can be a viable alternative to empirical or intuitive methods.

Keywords: finance, law

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Huang, Yundong and Smith, Murphy and Durr, David Wright, A Weighted Mean Model for Operational Risk Assessment (June 7, 2013). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 12, No. 1, July 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2276284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
L Allen , T G Bali
Cyclicality in Catastrophic and Operational Risk Measurements
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 1191 , issue 4 , p. 1191 - 235 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Basel Committee
Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk
Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2003
Basel Committee
International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework
Bank for International Settlements Posted: 2005
J Blazovich , L Murphy Smith
Ethical Corporate Citizenship: Does it Pay?' (2011) 15 Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting , volume 127 , p. 127 - 63
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
430
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,049
RANK
155,190
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies