Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Involvement in Accounting: A Case Study of International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption and the Work of Accountants

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2013

Anna-Maija Lantto

University of Vaasa

Date Written: April 23, 2013

Abstract

Although Byrne and Pierce (2007) find that an increasing regulatory burden may decrease accountants’ chances of getting involved in business, little is known about corporate reporting practice and whether, and if yes how, regulation impacts on accountants’ work. In order to fill this gap the paper provides a case study analysis of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adoption and its impact on and implications for an accountant’s role, positions, practices and work in a continental European context. This study describes how IFRS expect information preparers to take more responsibility for reporting than domestic accounting standards (DAS). Thus the present study contributes to the literature by arguing that it depends on the set of accounting standards how they impact on accountants’ work. The study shows why and how especially IFRS’ requirement of "business involvement" in accounting revolutionises accountants’ work and how it has implications on their roles, practices and positions in the case firm. Finally, the paper explains how learning and knowledge creation required by IFRS adoption was made possible through communities of practice and hence how it was possible to clarify the responsibilities of divisional and group accountants in the case firm. Thus, the present study enhances our understanding of reporting activity by describing actual practices of and mechanisms used in corporate reporting.

Keywords: Accountants’ work, International Financial Reporting Standards, a community of practice

Suggested Citation:

Lantto, Anna-Maija, Business Involvement in Accounting: A Case Study of International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption and the Work of Accountants (April 23, 2013). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2277766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
B Bechky
Sharing meaning across occupational communities: the transformation of understanding on a production floor
Organization Science , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 312 - 330 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Bennett , M Bradbury , H Prangnell
Rules, Principles and Judgments in Accounting Standards , volume 42 , p. 189 - 204 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G Benston , M Bromwich , A Wagenhofer
Principles-versus rules-based accounting standards: the FASB's standard setting strategy
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 188 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Briers , W F Chua
The role of actor-networks and boundary objects in management accounting change: a field study of an implementation of activity-based costing, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 26 , issue 3 , p. 237 - 269 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Ana Caria , Delfina Gomes
Why Global Accounting Standards Diffuse? An Analysis From the Lenses of Actor-Network Theory
60 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 110
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Esat Durguti , Erëza A. Arifi
Challenges and Difficulties for Micro-Businesses in Adapting IFRS for SMES Requirements: Kosovo Evidence
Journal of Liberty and International Affairs, Institute for Research and European Studies - Bitola, volume 7, issue 3, 2021[<a href="https://doi.org/10.47305/JLIA2137085d" rel="nofollow">10.47305/JLIA2137085d</a>] · 17 Pages · Posted: 30 Oct 2024 · Downloads: 63
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,840
RANK
160,765
2 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies