Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Dutch ‘Base Exemption Regime’ and the Spirit of the Internal Market

EC Tax Review, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 40-55, February 2013

15 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2013

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Ciska Wisman

Radboud University Nijmegen

Date Written: February 2013

Abstract

As of January 1, 2012, the Dutch corporate income tax (‘CIT’) system provides for international juridical double tax relief (‘DTR’) under a mechanism referred to in Dutch tax practice as the ‘base exemption for foreign business profits’ (author’s translation). The newly introduced DTR mechanism replaces the Dutch-style ‘tax exemption with progression method’ in the area of corporate taxation, regarding proceeds derived from foreign-source business activities. The rationale for this legislative shift, according to the Dutch tax legislator, is to arrive at an augmented level of converged tax treatment for corporate taxpayers carrying on business operations abroad, either directly (i.e., through a permanent establishment, ‘PE’) or indirectly (i.e., through a subsidiary). One of the introduced tax effects is that current losses suffered by resident corporate taxpayers from business activities carried on abroad through a PE are no longer taken into account for CIT calculation purposes. The tax legislator implicitly justifies its amendments by labeling the immediate horizontal cross-border loss set-off possibilities as available under the former DTR mechanism as a “cash flow advantage” granted to Dutch resident corporate taxpayers. That characterization reveals an underlying normative consideration. We do away with an ‘advantage’ to arrive at a taxing system devoid of anomalies at this point. The Dutch tax legislator suggests an improvement. But has he not, in fact, created a disadvantage? And by doing that, he infringes upon the spirit of the internal market within the European Union (EU) in the process.

Keywords: international taxation, business taxation, european law, fundamental freedoms

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris and Wisman, Ciska, The New Dutch ‘Base Exemption Regime’ and the Spirit of the Internal Market (February 2013). EC Tax Review, Vol. 22, No. 1, pp. 40-55, February 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2278270
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
See Marks , &amp; Spencer , I I
One may argue whether the DTR mechanism infringes upon EU law to the extent that the loss recognized under the 'cessation regime' does not match the 'final loss' under the 'M&S exception'. A conclusion on this matter seems dependant on a further interpretation of the European Court of Justice's case law , volume 56
This, notably, has lead Advocate General Kokott to observe in her opinions in Philips Electronics, supra note 56, and particularly A Oy, supra note 56, that little room, if any, remains for the M&S exception to be acknowledged under current primary EU law. She opines that the non-recognition of cross-border loss set-off may be fully justifiable solely on territoriality arguments ('balanced allocation of taxing powers'). Accordingly, Kokott seems to encourage the Court of Justice to allow EU MSs to adopt full-fledged territorial taxing systems. It is noted that such tax systems, indeed, promote production factor import neutrality. However, simultaneously, they severely hamper outbound investment. We fail to appreciate why the internal market should necessarily favor import neutrality over export neutrality. In the internal market, intra-EU investment is directed both inward bound and outward bound
However, it should be mentioned that the Court of Justice did not refer to its 'M&S exception' in its rulings in the cases X Holding, supra note 19 and Lidl, supra note 56)
See Court , Justice
Crossref
See Rewe Zentralfinanz
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
839
RANK
719,188
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies