Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Initiatives Across the Value Chain

Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, March 2013

28 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013

Dennis Caplan

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Raef A. Lawson

Profitability Analytics Center of Excellence

Date Written: March 2013

Abstract

The value chain is a widely used framework to assess and manage corporate profitability. This paper explores how companies manage their CSR efforts along this framework. We develop a generic value chain that has three links upstream and one link downstream. We analyze qualitative data from CEO letters that accompany the CSR reports of 32 global companies across four industries, in order to assess the relative emphasis of the five links in our value chain. We document differences across industries and also between U.S and non U.S. firms, in the CSR initiatives that the companies undertake and highlight.

Keywords: value chain, corporate social responsibility, sustainability, supply chain

Suggested Citation:

Caplan, Dennis and Dutta, Saurav K. and Lawson, Raef A., CSR Initiatives Across the Value Chain (March 2013). Journal of Corporate Accounting and Finance, March 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2279137
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S K Dutta , R A Lawson
Broadening value chain analysis for environmental factors. Cost Management , p. 5 - 14 Posted: 2008-03
I suggest rethinking our concluding paragraph. Perhaps discuss how value chain analysis is a way to identify opportunities for companies and challenges for regulators, environmentalists and other activists. Perhaps also discuss the importance of identifying best practices across industries
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,526
RANK
475,660
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies