Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linking Prevention, Detection, and Whistle-Blowing: Principles for Designing Effective Reporting Systems

Symposium On Whistle-Blowing and the Regulation of Workplace Reporting, 54 S. Tex. L. Rev. 37 (2013)

San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 13-123

19 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2013

Orly Lobel

University of San Diego School of Law

Date Written: June 2013

Abstract

This invited essay for a symposium dedicated to whistle-blowing research offers an overview of recent experimental and empirical research on social reporting and whistle-blowing behavior. Whistle-blowing laws serve a dual purpose. They serve both to instill ethical norms of behavior to prevent misconduct from occurring and to detect ongoing organizational corruption. The design of sound processes for reporting wrongdoing signals the significance that the organization and society attribute to compliance and ethical conduct. At the same time, whistle-blowing laws directly add to the texture of incentives and motivations of individuals in their decision about whether to blow the whistle. In recent years, there is a growing number of empirical and experimental research about ethical behavior and social enforcement. This article aims to illuminate what we know about the design of whistle-blowing protections, individual incentives, and effective reporting channels; and to suggest ways in which policy can benefit from the increasing depth in the social science research.

Keywords: whistle-blowing, employment law, reporting, incentives, experimental studies, behavioral law and economics, new governance, health policy, regulation, administrative law, governance, judgment and decision-making, consumer protection, environmental protection, financial regulation

JEL Classification: K00, K2, L51, K32, I1, I18, H3, H51, A13, J58, K31

Suggested Citation:

Lobel, Orly, Linking Prevention, Detection, and Whistle-Blowing: Principles for Designing Effective Reporting Systems (June 2013). Symposium On Whistle-Blowing and the Regulation of Workplace Reporting, 54 S. Tex. L. Rev. 37 (2013), San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 13-123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2281423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Chinyere Ajanwachuku
An In-House Counsel's Decision to Whistleblow, 25 GEO
J. LEGAL ETHICS , volume 379 Posted: 2012
Pub. L , p. 107 - 204 Posted: 2002
Crossref
E G See , Barron V
Labor Finders of South Carolina, 393 S.C , volume 609 Posted: 2011
Marcia P Miceli &amp; , Janet P Near , Blowing , Whistle
THE ORGANIZATIONAL AND LEGAL IMPLICATIONS FOR COMPANIES AND EMPLOYEES Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,166
RANK
213,875
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies