Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Discrimination of Married Same-Sex Couples

29 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2013

Debbie Psihountas

Webster University

Richard Dippel

Webster University

George Slusarz

Webster University

Date Written: June 18, 2013

Abstract

As the discussion and debate in the political arena intensifies concerning the social aspects of same-sex marriage, there are also adverse economic and legal effects on same-sex couples due to the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). In order to sample the effect of DOMA, we examined the tax consequences of the inability of such couples to file a tax return based on "married filing jointly" status by surveying same-sex couples who were married in Massachusetts. After comparing their current tax liability versus their theoretical tax liability using the "married filing jointly" status, we found that sixty-eight percent of those couples suffered an average tax penalty in 2008 of $2,495. Based on this actual adverse impact, we examined a legal remedy based on the failure to accord deference to the States with respect to matters specifically involving marriage in violation of the 10th amendment to the United States Constitution.

Keywords: Same-sex marriage, DOMA, Marriage Tax, Gay marriage

JEL Classification: M48, K3, H7, H2

Suggested Citation:

Psihountas, Debbie and Dippel, Richard and Slusarz, George, Federal Discrimination of Married Same-Sex Couples (June 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2281393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2281393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Elia-Warnken V , Elia
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. § 1167(3)(A)(i) Posted: 2011
Estate Of Steffke
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 538 F. 2d 730 (7th Cir Posted: 1976
Franchise Tax Board of California v Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,840
RANK
441,817
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies