Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Has the Quality of Accounting Education Declined?

43 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2013

Paul E. Madsen

University of Florida

Date Written: June 19, 2013

Abstract

For decades, accounting practitioners, academics, and professional bodies have argued that the quality of accounting education is falling. There are two specific claims in the literature. First, that the knowledge acquired by students in accounting programs has become less valuable and second, that the best students self-select away from accounting degree programs. In this study, I use several large, publically available datasets to empirically test both claims. I measure the quality of accounting education using a model of the private economic returns to accounting education relative to the returns to education in non-accounting fields and find no evidence of a decline in the returns to accounting education from either 1950 to 2010 or 1970 to 2010 relative to all non-accounting workers or all non-accounting workers in business occupations. To assess the quality of students selecting into accounting degree programs, I model the quality of students expressing interest in various college degrees after controlling for a number of their demographic characteristics. I find that, relative to students pursuing all non-accounting majors, the quality of freshmen interested in accounting has by most measures been steady over 1971 to 1999. Relative to freshmen interested in non-accounting business majors, the quality of freshmen interested in accounting has significantly declined over the sample period. The results are broadly inconsistent with the hypothesis that the quality of accounting education has declined, but they do suggest that accounting programs have fared increasingly poorly in the competition for the best and brightest students in business schools, a fact that could have contributed to the perception that the quality of accounting students has declined.

Keywords: returns to accounting education, accounting major premium, accounting students, accounting student quality

JEL Classification: J24, J31, J44, M41, M53, N3, N81

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Paul E., Has the Quality of Accounting Education Declined? (June 19, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2281939 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2281939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J G Altonji
The demand for and return to education when education outcomes are uncertain
Journal of Labor Economics , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 83 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J G Altonji , E Blom , C Meghir
Heterogeneity in human capital investments: High school curriculum, college major, and careers
Annual Reviews of Economics , volume 4 , p. 185 - 223 Posted: 2011
Crossref
AAA). 1986. The Bedford Report -Future accounting education: Preparing for the Expanding Profession
D J Andrews , R J Koester
Communication difficulties as perceived by the accounting profession and professors of accounting
The Journal of Business Communication , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 33 - 42 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
W Robert Knechel
Audit research in the wake of SOX
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 30 , issue 8/9 , p. 706 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Yuepin Zhou
Mitigating the Influence of Motivated Reasoning on Auditor Judgment
Posted: 6 Mar 2018 · Last revised: 15 Mar 2023 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
494
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,120
RANK
131,610
2 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies