Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyst Report Readability

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2283265

49 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2013

Gus De Franco

Purdue University

Ole-Kristian Hope

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Dushyantkumar Vyas

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management; University of Toronto at Mississauga

Yibin Zhou

University of Texas at Dallas - Naveen Jindal School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 21, 2013

Abstract

Using an extensive database of 356,463 sell-side equity analysts’ reports from 2002 to 2009, this study is one of the first to analyze the readability of analysts’ reports. We first examine the determinants of variations in analyst report readability. Using several proxies for ability, we show that reports are more readable when issued by analysts with higher ability. Second, we test the relation between analysts’ report readability and stock trading volume reactions. We find that trading volume reactions increase with the readability of analysts’ text, consistent with theoretical models that predict that more precise information (and hence more informative signals) results in investors’ initiating trades. These results support the view that the readability of analysts’ reports is important to analysts and capital market participants.

Keywords: Analyst reports, readability, volume reactions, analyst ability

JEL Classification: G20, G24, G30, M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

De Franco, Gus and Hope, Ole-Kristian and Vyas, Dushyantkumar and Zhou, Yibin, Analyst Report Readability (June 21, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Rotman School of Management Working Paper No. 2283265, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2283265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J S Abarbanell , W N Lanen , R E Verrecchia
Analysts' forecasts as proxies for investor beliefs in empirical research
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , p. 31 - 60 Posted: 1995
Crossref
P Asquith , M B Mikhail , A S Au
Information content of equity analyst reports
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 75 , p. 245 - 82 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L S Bamber
The information content of annual earnings releases: A trading volume approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , p. 40 - 56 Posted: 1986
Crossref
L S Bamber , O E Barron , D E Stevens
Trading Volume Around Earnings Announcements and Other Financial Reports: Theory, Research Design, Empirical Evidence, and Directions for Future Research
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 431 - 471 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,222
RANK
26,774
4 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Can Investors Profit from the Prophets? Consensus Analyst Recommendations and Stock Returns

By Brad M. Barber, Reuven Lehavy, ...

Security Analysts' Career Concerns and Herding of Earnings Forecasts

By Jeffrey D. Kubik, Amit Solomon, ...

The Relation between Analysts' Forecasts of Long-Term Earnings Growth and Stock Price Performance Following Equity Offerings

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies