Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Skating Too Close to the Edge: A Cautionary Tale for Tax Practitioners About the Hazards of Waiver

University of Cincinnati Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, Art. 4, pp. 953-1000, 2013

49 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2013

Claudine V. Pease-Wingenter

Arizona Summit Law School

Date Written: June 23, 2013

Abstract

The Federal Rules of Evidence defer to common law in establishing the rules of attorney-client privilege. As a general matter, such an approach creates a fairly uncertain legal landscape as each court articulates the baseline rules somewhat differently. The varied judicial applications of those differing rules can then exacerbate the uncertainty even more.

Unfortunately, in the area of tax law, the rules and their application are particularly uncertain because attorneys and accountants have overlapping responsibilities to clients and the courts have historically refused to recognize an accountant-client privilege. During my approximately eight years practicing corporate tax law, I was acutely aware of the tremendous confusion and uncertainty about the application of attorney-client privilege in my discipline. Both the Tax Bar and the courts were confused about the application of the rules and the extent to which privilege applied. When I became an academic, I resolved to focus my scholarship in this area to bring clarity and guidance to the muddled state of the common law.

This article is the third in a trilogy of articles that sheds light on the application of privilege in the area of tax. The first article in 2008 synthesized a huge body of common law to explain when the attorney-client privilege initially attaches to client-tax lawyer communications. The second article in 2010 addressed the case law applying the statutorily enacted Federally Authorized Tax Practitioner Privilege. The statutory privilege extended the common law attorney-client privilege to certain non-lawyers in the tax setting; it has huge potential interpretative significance for tax attorney-client privilege cases. This third and final article explains how the protections of privilege can be lost due to waiver.

Because tax practitioners have been uncertain as to when privilege initially attaches, waiver has long been a huge trap for the unwary. Due to the specter of subject matter waiver, this trap has potentially broad and devastating effects on a client’s case. This article reviews the rules determining when privilege initially attaches to then explain the mechanics of waiving that privilege whether purposefully or inadvertently. The article warns tax practitioners about several common situations when subject matter waiver is often inadvertently triggered. The article also provides courts with guidance about a few high-profile cases that have frequently been misunderstood to define the scope of waiver too broadly.

Keywords: privilege, attorney-client privilege, tax, taxation, business, waiver, disclosure, accountant, I.R.C. section 7525, FATP, federally authorized tax practitioner

Suggested Citation:

Pease-Wingenter, Claudine V., Skating Too Close to the Edge: A Cautionary Tale for Tax Practitioners About the Hazards of Waiver (June 23, 2013). University of Cincinnati Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 3, Art. 4, pp. 953-1000, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2284307
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Greenwald
Id
citing RESTATEMENT (THIRD) OF THE LAW GOVERNING LAWYERS § 79)
Id
Our Lady Of Mercy Med. Ctr., No. 94 Civ , volume 5986 Posted: 1998-02-17
Fdic , F R Ernst &amp; Whinney
, volume 14 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
493,078
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies