Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Accounting Net Profit Margin a Valid Measure of CEO Cash Compensation? A Comparative Analysis on NYSE and TSX/S&P Indexes Companies

International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research Volume 3, Issue 9, September-2012

6 Pages Posted: 25 Jun 2013

Yusuf Nulla

University of Liverpool Online

Date Written: September 1, 2012

Abstract

This study investigated the relationship between the CEO cash compensation and the accounting earnings (Net Profit Margin) of the companies in the TSX/S&P and the NYSE indexes from 2005 to 2010. The research question for this study was: among the TSX/S&P and the NYSE companies, is there a relationship between the CEO cash compensation and the accounting earnings (Net Profit Margin)? Overall, most of the attestations results were found to have the relationship between the CEO cash compensation and the accounting earnings (Net Profit Margin). The correlations among the sub-variables of the CEO Cash Compensation and the Net Profit Margin were found to be consistently positive ranging from weak positive to the strong positive. The firm group-sized had a positive effect on the relationship between the CEO salary, the CEO bonus, and the net profit margin, both in the TSX/S&P and the NYSE companies.

Keywords: CEO Cash Compensation, Accounting Performance, Net Profit Margin, Accounting Earnings, NYSE CEO Compensation, TSX/S&P CEO Compensation

Suggested Citation:

Nulla, Yusuf, Is Accounting Net Profit Margin a Valid Measure of CEO Cash Compensation? A Comparative Analysis on NYSE and TSX/S&P Indexes Companies (September 1, 2012). International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research Volume 3, Issue 9, September-2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2284299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2284299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Rick Antle , Abbie Smith
‚An Empirical Investigation of the Relative Performance Evaluation of Corporate Executives‛
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , Iti Evans , H John , James Noel
Optimal Contracts with a Utility-Maximizing Auditor
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Stanley Baiman , Iti Evans , John Nagarajan , Nadu
Collusion in Auditing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 29 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Marianno Bertrand , Sendhil Mullainathan
Are CEO's Rewarded for Luck? The Ones Without Principals Are
Quarterly Journal of Economics , p. 901 - 932 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
268,746
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies