Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discounting Lost Profits in Business Litigation: What Every Lawyer and Judge Needs to Know

Transactions: The Tennessee Journal of Business Law, Vol. 9 No. 1, pages 9-65 (2007)

University of Tennessee Legal Studies Research Paper No. 216

58 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2013 Last revised: 9 Jul 2013

Robert M. Lloyd

University of Tennessee College of Law

Date Written: October 26, 2007

Abstract

This article explains how experts and courts should go about calculating the present value of future lost profits in business damages cases. It explains the mechanics of discounting to present value and the finance theory underlying the choice of a proper discount rate. It also reviews in depth the case law regarding discounting lost profits in business damages cases.

Keywords: lost profits, discount rate, damages, present value

JEL Classification: A11, K12, K41, M21

Suggested Citation:

Lloyd, Robert M., Discounting Lost Profits in Business Litigation: What Every Lawyer and Judge Needs to Know (October 26, 2007). Transactions: The Tennessee Journal of Business Law, Vol. 9 No. 1, pages 9-65 (2007), University of Tennessee Legal Studies Research Paper No. 216, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2285750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
IBI), claimed that the tactics CPSC used to defeat IBI's competing bid violated both the Sherman Act and Illinois common law. 217 Both the district court and the Seventh Circuit majority agreed with IBI's claim. 218 To calculate damages, the district court used the yardstick method, a common way of calculating lost profits. 219 The yardstick method determines the profits the plaintiff lost on account of the defendant's wrongful act by comparing the plaintiff's actual profits after the defendant's wrongful act with the profits of a business similar to that of the plaintiff but not subject to the defendant's wrongdoing. This business is the "yardstick
Fortunately, a few economically-sophisticated judges have thought carefully about the discount rate issue and have written opinions that other courts should look to for guidance Posted: 1986
Id
Id , Interestingly
IBI submitted a written bid of $3.3 million and "that same day the Bulls' Executive Committee recommended that IBI's offer be accepted because IBI was willing to pay all cash at closing
Id
at 529-30 , volume 562
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
264,566
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Winston College of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies