Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Media Coverage of Accounting: The NRL Salary Cap Crisis

Andon, P. & Free, C. (2013). Media coverage of accounting: The NRL salary cap crisis. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Forthcoming.

57 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2013

Paul Andon

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Clinton Free

University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

Purpose: Arguing that the print media act as a claims-making forum for the social construction and contestation of crises, we explore how the print media mediated two audits commissioned following a high-profile salary cap breach in the National Rugby League (NRL) in Australia.

Methodology/Approach: We draw upon critical discourse analysis to examine the media coverage of the two audits by the two major Australian media organisations, News Limited and Fairfax Media Limited. The analysis is based on a qualitative study complemented by quantitative techniques that explore critical incidents and representations in the daily press.

Findings: Illustrates the way in which News Limited, the owner of the infringing club, mobilised its media platform to promote favourable viewpoints and interpretations and how these were challenged in the Fairfax press. Evidence of both coverage bias and statement bias in the treatment of the two audits is produced.

Originality/Value of paper: This paper provides evidence that commercial interests of owner/publishers coloured media coverage of the two audits, which were central pillars of the crisis management strategy of News Limited and the NRL. Implications for the media’s contribution to public accountability, accounting outputs and impression management, and the growing commercial diversification and reach of media outlets are considered.

Keywords: Accounting outputs, Crisis, Media, Media Bias, Coverage Bias, Statement Bias

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Andon, Paul and Free, Clinton Wallace, Media Coverage of Accounting: The NRL Salary Cap Crisis (June 1, 2013). Andon, P. & Free, C. (2013). Media coverage of accounting: The NRL salary cap crisis. Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2287397
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
179 References
W Aerts
On the use of accounting logic as an explanatory category in narrative accounting disclosures
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 19 , issue 5 , p. 337 - 353 Posted: 1994
Crossref
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 6 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Andon , C Free
Auditing and crisis management: The 2010 Melbourne Storm salary cap scandal
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 131 - 154 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Badel
Greedy, arrogant man and his 148-word lie Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,658
RANK
493,078
179 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies