Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
European Tax Law Concepts in the ECJ's Case Law: The Concepts of Tax, Valid Commercial Reasons, Withholding Tax and Centre of Main Interests of the Debtor

44 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2013

Ana Gabriela Rocha

University of Lisbon

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

This paper analyzes the development on the ECJ’s case law of four European tax law concepts, made possible by the autonomous interpretation of European law towards the national legal orders. The European law concepts of tax vs. fee, valid commercial reasons on the Merger Directive, withholding tax on the Parent-Subsidiary Directive and center of main interests of the debtor on the Insolvency Regulation are analyzed.

Keywords: European law concepts, autonomous interpretation, legal pluralism

Suggested Citation:

Rocha, Ana, European Tax Law Concepts in the ECJ's Case Law: The Concepts of Tax, Valid Commercial Reasons, Withholding Tax and Centre of Main Interests of the Debtor (June 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2289370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2289370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Ian F Fletcher
Cross border insolvency within the European Union: dawn of a new era
Aktuelle Entwicklungen des europaischen und internationalen Zivilverfahrensrechts Posted: 2002
Bob Wessels
The European Union Insolvency Regulation: An overview with trans-atlantic elaborations , volume 481 Posted: 2003
Michael Veder
The localization of companies from the perspective of insolvency law: the concept of COMI
The Netherlands, IBFD, 2012, forthcoming, section 2. See also the Report on the Convention of Insolvency Proceedings Posted: 1996-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,707
RANK
297,327
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies