Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Australia's Proposed Unrelated Commercial Activities Tax: Lessons from the U.S. UBIT

Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 21-30, 2012

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 13/46

14 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2013

Micah Burch

The University of Sydney Law School

Date Written: July 2013

Abstract

After announcing its intention to tax income from the unrelated commercial activities of not-for-profit entities in its 2011-2012 budget, the Australian government delayed by a year (to July 1, 2012) the start date for its Better Targeting for Not-For-Profit Tax Concessions reforms. The delay is in response to the not-for-profit sector’s desire for further consultations before implementation and offers a welcome opportunity to reconsider the measure in light of the U.S. experience with a similar tax provision. This article outlines some problems with the justifications for, and implementation of, the planned reform.

Keywords: taxation, income taxation, charities, not-for-profit entities, UBIT, unrelated business income tax, commercial activities

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K34

Suggested Citation:

Burch, Micah, Australia's Proposed Unrelated Commercial Activities Tax: Lessons from the U.S. UBIT (July 2013). Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 21-30, 2012, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 13/46, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2291323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,078
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies