Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Versus Penalty, Round Two, Fight! Interpreting the PPACA's Assessable Payment as a Tax for Federal Funding Cost Allowances

Boston College Law Review, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2013

Riley Lovendale

Boston College Law Review

Date Written: April 15, 2013

Abstract

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), significant health care reform enacted in 2010, imposes an “assessable payment” on certain employers that fail to offer affordable health insurance to their employees. The ambiguity of the exaction’s title poses a planning problem for some nonprofits receiving federal grant funds with restrictions imposed by the Office of Management and Budget’s Circular A-122. Circular A-122 permits these restricted grant funds to be used for “taxes,” but not for “penalties.” On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court, held in National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius that the PPACA’s individual mandate’s “shared responsibility payment” could, for constitutional purposes, be interpreted as a tax. This Note argues that the PPACA’s assessable payment should be interpreted as a tax by applying the Supreme Court’s recent tax versus penalty analysis and analyzing the exaction’s characteristics and effect on employer behavior. This interpretation will provide organizations with predictability in planning and ensure that Congress does not escape political accountability for imposing taxes by using the ambiguous term “assessable payment.”

Keywords: PPACA, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Obamacare, tax, taxes, penalty, federal grants, federal funding, OMB Circular A-122, Office of Management and Budget

Suggested Citation:

Lovendale, Riley, Tax Versus Penalty, Round Two, Fight! Interpreting the PPACA's Assessable Payment as a Tax for Federal Funding Cost Allowances (April 15, 2013). Boston College Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2292252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
As part of its analysis, the Court stated that if the exaction was "in reality a penalty it cannot be converted into a tax by so naming it, and we must ascribe to it the character disclosed by its purpose and operation, regardless of name , volume 294 Posted: 1978
471 (1866) (holding that the grant of certain federal licenses to sell alcohol and lottery tickets "must be regarded as nothing more than a mere form of imposing a tax , volume 462
Nfib See , S Ct
See Id Bailey V
Drexel Furniture Co , volume 20 , p. 36 - 38
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
915,095
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies