Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What You Give and What You Get: Reciprocity Under a Model 1 Intergovernmental Agreement on FATCA

Cayman Fin. Rev. April 2013

8 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2013

Allison Christians

McGill University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: April 12, 2013

Abstract

As is well known within international tax circles by now, the U.S. Congress enacted FATCA in response to publicity surrounding well known foreign institutions, most especially in Switzerland, that helped US customers hide income and assets from the IRS. That publicity continues, reinforcing the need for the protection of the US tax base against erosion through criminal activity. Thus FATCA emerges as a defensive move against criminal behavior. But in the absence of reciprocity from the US itself, the reverse proposition remains possible: the United States perversely positions itself to gain from the very behavior it seeks to eliminate in other jurisdictions. This brief look at what countries give and what they get under an IGA with the US signals the vital role of reciprocity in making sure countries use international agreements to gain mutual advantage through cooperation rather than a unilateral edge in a dangerous game of undermine-thy-neighbor.

Keywords: FATCA, IGA, international agreement, tax, international tax, reciprocity, tax policy, mutual agreement, tax evasion

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H87, F02, F50, F53, F59, Z13, E63, H2, K33, K34, N40, P45

Suggested Citation:

Christians, Allison, What You Give and What You Get: Reciprocity Under a Model 1 Intergovernmental Agreement on FATCA (April 12, 2013). Cayman Fin. Rev. April 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2292645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Timothy From Frank Keating To , Geithner
Posted: 2012-12-12
Crossref
E G See , Robert Kudrle
The OECD's Harmful Tax Competition Initiative and the Tax Havens: From Bombshell to Damp Squib, 8 GLOBAL
ECON. J Posted: 2008
Ann Hollingshead , Privately Held
Non-Resident Deposits in Secrecy Jurisdictions
Kevin Stier
Foreign Tax Cheats Find U.S. Banks a Safe Haven , volume 8599 Posted: 1921
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
899
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,739
RANK
60,666
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies