Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Zinger to IRS: Revisiting Artistes and Sportsmen Treaty Provisions

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 59, 2013

9 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2013 Last revised: 17 Jul 2013

Seth J. Entin

Greenberg Traurig

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

This article analyzes the Tax Court case of Garcia v. Commissioner. The article focuses on two key aspects of Garcia: (1) the classification of an athlete's endorsement income as royalty income rather than services income; and (2) the taxability of that royalty income under an "Artistes and Sportsmen" treaty provision.

The article argues that while the Tax Court was undoubtedly correct in its conclusion, the Tax Court's result can be derived from a more straightforward reading of the text, Treasury Technical Explanation, and structure and underlying policy of the applicable treaty.

Keywords: Garcia, treaty, artistes, sportsmen, entertainers, royalties, services, withholding

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Entin, Seth J., A Zinger to IRS: Revisiting Artistes and Sportsmen Treaty Provisions (July 1, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 59, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2293509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
738
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies