Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs and Benefits of Mandatory Securities Regulation: Evidence from Market Reactions to the JOBS Act of 2012

Journal of Law, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 701

53 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2013 Last revised: 1 May 2025

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Vikramaditya S. Khanna

University of Michigan Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 17, 2015

Abstract

The effect of mandatory securities regulation on firm value has been a longstanding concern across law, economics and finance. In 2012, Congress enacted the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (“JOBS”) Act, relaxing disclosure and compliance obligations for a new category of firms known as “emerging growth companies” (EGCs) that satisfied certain criteria (such as having less than $1 billion of annual revenue). The JOBS Act’s definition of an EGC involved a limited degree of retroactivity, extending its application to firms that conducted initial public offerings (IPOs) between December 8, 2011 and April 5, 2012 (the day the bill became law). The December 8 cutoff date was publicly known prior to the JOBS bill’s key legislative events, notably those of March 15, 2012, when Senate consideration began and the Senate Majority Leader expressed strong support for the bill. We analyze market reactions for EGCs that conducted IPOs after the cutoff date, relative to a control group of otherwise similar firms that conducted IPOs in the months preceding the cutoff date. We find positive and statistically significant abnormal returns for EGCs around March 15, relative to the control firms. This suggests that the value to investors of the disclosure and compliance obligations relaxed under the JOBS Act is outweighed by the associated compliance costs. The baseline results imply a positive abnormal return of between 3% and 4%, and the implied increase in firm value is at least $20 million for an EGC with the median market value in our sample.

Keywords: Securities regulation, JOBS Act of 2012, Emerging growth companies

JEL Classification: G18, K22

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika and Khanna, Vikramaditya S., The Costs and Benefits of Mandatory Securities Regulation: Evidence from Market Reactions to the JOBS Act of 2012 (April 17, 2015). Journal of Law, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, University of Chicago Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper No. 701, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2293167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2293167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y H A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
The Economic Effects of SOX Section 404 Compliance: A Corporate Insider Perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
Iii Bartlett , R P
Going Private but Staying Public: Reexamining the Effect of Sarbanes-Oxley on Firms' Going-Private Decisions
University of Chicago Law Review , volume 76 , p. 7 - 44 Posted: 2009
C Berdejo
Going Public after the JOBS Act
Ohio State Law Journal Posted: 2014
G J Benston
Required Disclosure and the Stock Market: An Evaluation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
American Economic Review , volume 63 , p. 132 - 155 Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
630
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,213
RANK
73,175
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Chicago Law School, Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies