Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and the Macroeconomy: The Case of Aggregate Price-Level Effects on Individual Stocks

Financial Analysts Journal, Year 2013, Volume 69, Number 6 (November/December), Pages 40-54

32 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2013 Last revised: 5 Apr 2016

Yaniv Konchitchki

University of California, Berkeley - Haas School of Business

Date Written: November 1, 2013

Abstract

This study sheds new light on the cross-sectional effects of inflation, which have substantial implications for stock valuation. I use financial statement analysis to examine systematic stock-valuation effects of aggregate price-level changes on individual companies, focusing on the implications for both researchers and investment practitioners. I develop inflation-adjustment procedures that are straightforward for investors to implement in real time for extracting the inflation effect on individual companies. I find that inflation-based investment strategies conditioned on information available to investors as of the initial investment and rebalancing dates result in significant risk-adjusted returns. I also investigate the sources of abnormal returns to inflation-based investment strategies. Specifically, I estimate two separate components of the inflation effect on individual companies, one based on only monetary holdings (using the net position of monetary holdings) and the other based on only nonmonetary holdings. Investigating the stock-valuation implications of extracting the components-based inflation effect reveals striking evidence. In particular, investing based on the inflation effect on companies’ net monetary holdings results in insignificant abnormal hedge returns. In contrast, investing based on the inflation effect on companies’ nonmonetary holdings consistently yields economically and statistically significant abnormal hedge returns. These findings indicate that inflation-based abnormal hedge returns are driven not by the exposure of companies’ net monetary holdings to inflation but, rather, by the exposure of their nonmonetary holdings to inflation. These results are consistent with the fact that companies’ nonmonetary holdings are usually held for several years and thus accumulate inflationary effects over time whereas their monetary holdings are, on average, naturally hedged because the exposure of monetary assets cancels the exposure of monetary liabilities for the average company. In addition, I examine the direction of the stock returns to real-time investment strategies.

Keywords: Accounting, Aggregate Price Levels, Capital Markets, Financial Statement Analysis, Forecasting, Hedge, Inflation, Investment, Macroeconomics, Returns, Stock Valuation

JEL Classification: E01, E02, E31, G23, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Konchitchki, Yaniv, Accounting and the Macroeconomy: The Case of Aggregate Price-Level Effects on Individual Stocks (November 1, 2013). Financial Analysts Journal, Year 2013, Volume 69, Number 6 (November/December), Pages 40-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2293654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
J Abarbanell
Do Analysts' Earnings Forecasts Incorporate Information in Prior Stock Price Changes?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 165 Posted: 1991-06
Crossref
Jeffery S. Abarbanell , Brian J. Bushee
Abnormal Returns to a Fundamental Analysis Strategy
Pages: 40 Posted: 2 Dec 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Revaluations of Fixed Assets and Future Firm Performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999-01
Crossref
A Ang , M Brier , O Signori
Inflation and Individual Equities
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 36 - 55 Posted: 2012-07
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Neil L. Fargher , Lijuan Zhang
Investor Protection, Aggregate Changes in Profit Margins and Forecasts of Growth in GDP: International Evidence
50 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2020 · Last revised: 17 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 1,043
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gil Sadka , Ronnie Sadka , Ayung Tseng
The Rising Importance of Aggregate Earnings for Asset Prices
Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 4068891 · 54 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 13 Sep 2022 · Downloads: 434
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,194
RANK
126,330
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Arbitrage Risk and Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Richard R. Mendenhall

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Ronnie Sadka, ...

Liquidity and the Post-Earnings-Announcement Drift

By Tarun Chordia, Amit Goyal, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies