Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Corporations in Non-Financial Sectors Through Optimal Design of Executive Pay

14 GLJ No. 7 (2013)

25 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2013

David Hansen

Sigma Xi, The Scientific Research Honor Society; Golden Key International Honour Society; American Political Science Association (APSA); Australian Institute of International Affairs; The Association of Civil-Military Studies in Israel; Chatham House

Date Written: July 13, 2013

Abstract

After the 2008 financial crisis lawmakers and regulators were ultimately convinced that they should act on the basis of the theory that flaws in compensation schemes created incentives for executives and other financial industry employees to take on excessive risk, which in the aggregate led to the creation of systemic risk that posed an immeasurable threat to the US and world economies.

Congress attempted to resolve these problems through the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. However, the provisions for executive pay packages in the financial industry have not yet been adequately implemented to achieve the legislative goal of preventing excessive risk-taking and systemic risks that can induce financial crises in the future. Furthermore, there is need for corporate governance regulation of the same quality both in the financial and other business sectors, since – as economic history has clearly shown – crises can equally originate in failures of non-financial businesses. Moreover, by pursuing regulatory intervention in the compensation policies of all type of publicly held corporations, two major drawbacks can simultaneously be remedied: major economic recessions and the pay without performance fallacy.

Because say-on-pay rights and compensation committee independence do not enable the shareholders and the board of directors to exercise their shareholding or monitoring rights and control functions effectively, they cannot offer a real solution to the principal-agent problem and align the interests of executives with those of shareholders. It is necessary for Congress and the SEC to complement the organizational and procedural provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with some guidelines and extensive disclosure obligations for compensation committees to comply with when deciding on compensation policies and individual incentive plans.

There could be minimum standards for the design of compensation schemes in non-financial sectors, which would prescribe a bipartite pay package consisting of a fixed and a variable part. The variable part should be larger than the fixed part and mainly consist of performance-vested restricted stock to ensure that the board and the compensation committee only pay for performance. Furthermore, an executive should be obliged to hold an equity grant for a fixed period of time after it vests. After this pre-specified period the executive would be free to unwind a certain percentage of equity. On each of the following anniversary dates, the executive would be free to unwind another part of the grant. This rule will prevent a manager from attempting to manipulate stock prices to earn more in any given year at the expense of the stock price of her company’s equities in the more distant future.

It is also of cardinal importance that the minimum standards for the optimal design of compensation schemes provide incentives that go against rather than with the prevailing direction of the business cycle and that this will be reflected in the mechanism of unloading equities. At the beginning of business cycles, especially when the market and/or the firm is growing, the unwinding of equities should be countercyclical. The amount of equities that may be unloaded on the anniversary dates after one, two, and three years of operation should be much lower than the amount of equities that can be unloaded in later years. This mechanism fosters strategic thinking, prevents excessive risk-taking, enhances a company’s competitiveness and ensures its viability.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Executive Pay, SEC rules

JEL Classification: K22, M52, E32

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, David, Sustainable Corporations in Non-Financial Sectors Through Optimal Design of Executive Pay (July 13, 2013). 14 GLJ No. 7 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2293250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
See Lucian , A
Bebchuk & Holder Spamann, supra note 2, at 287; Compensation Structure & Systemic Risk: Hearing Before the H
Comm. on Fin. Servs., 111 th Cong , volume 6 Posted: 2009
Cf
Neither Contract nor Concession: The Public Personality of the Corporation, 74 GEO
this respect the concession v. nexus-of-contracts theories of the corporation: See Liam Seamus O'Melinn , volume 201 Posted: 2005
Stefan Padfield
Dodd-Frank Corporation: More than a Nexus-of-Contracts, 114 W. VA
L. REV , volume 209 Posted: 2011
Friedrich V Cf , Hayek
The Use of Knowledge in Society
AM. ECON. REV , volume 519 Posted: 1945
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
76
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
736,113
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies