Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting a Heart Attack: The Fundamental Opacity of Extreme Liquidity Risk

Temple Law Review, Forthcoming

73 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2013

William Fisher

University of Richmond - School of Law

Date Written: July 17, 2013

Abstract

After 150 years of business, Lehman Brothers ran out of cash and credit, and filed for bankruptcy on September 15, 2008. As a publicly traded company, Lehman had filed all the reports required by U.S. securities law. But the hundreds of pages of words and numbers provided no timely warning of lurking liquidity death. The risks of tri-party repurchase financing and the endgame Lehman would have to play if a self-magnifying credit drain hit were, as it turned out, inherently opaque. Disclosure, the traditional securities law “fix,” was destined to fail in this case, raising the question of whether it might fail in others as well.

JEL Classification: G18, G24, G28, K22

Suggested Citation:

Fisher, William, Predicting a Heart Attack: The Fundamental Opacity of Extreme Liquidity Risk (July 17, 2013). Temple Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2294965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
Barry Statement Of , Zubrow
, p. 1097 - 98 Posted: 2010
Examiner Report, supra note 1 , p. 1095 - 96
Zubrow Statement
at 3 (emphasis in original); 4 Examiner Report, supra note 1, 1099 n.4009 (summarizing interview with JPM collateral risk manager
Zubrow Statement, supra note 101 , p. 3 - 4
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
560,422
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies