Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Custom Fit or Off-the-Shelf Standards: Dilemma of Financial Reporting in Interactive World Economy

16 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2013

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: May 31, 2013

Abstract

Approach to accounting, and the world in which it operates has changed over half-a-millennium since Luca Pacioli. The past century has seen a great expansion of investment and trade across national boundaries. If financial reporting were standardized in all or most national jurisdictions, certain economies in training of accountants and analysts, preparation and audit of financial reports, writing of rules of financial reporting, and perhaps their enforcement world-wide could be achieved. This argument led to the creation of International Accounting Standards Committee and its successor International Accounting Standards Board which has produced a body of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).

There are also substantial counter-arguments pointing to important dis-economies of standardization. If even individual countries have difficulty defending their single set of domestic standards against the criticism (that they do not fit companies from various industries and sizes), it seems even less plausible that a single set of world-wide standards can offer an efficient solution. A single set of standards do not leave any room to learn from trial-and-error experimentation and cross-border comparisons, and risk freezing us into an inefficient system of reporting. Further, rule-making bureaucracies have limitations of their own, and without competition, could easily sink into authoritative irrationality.

The arguments for as well as against standardization are qualitative, and it has been difficult so far to compare them to decide what is better. After the initial burst of enthusiasm in the European Union for this effort, the poor performance of IFRS during the global financial crisis has cooled the enthusiasm. Some even claim that this misguided effort towards standardization was one of causes of the crisis. As doubts are voiced in the U.S., China, Japan, India, and even U.K., France and Germany about the wisdom of giving a standards monopoly to a single private sector body, it is also time for the emerging economies to rethink the balance between for international and local standards and between written rules and social norms of various societies.

Keywords: financial reporting, international standards, local standards, experimentation, emerging economies

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, Custom Fit or Off-the-Shelf Standards: Dilemma of Financial Reporting in Interactive World Economy (May 31, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2294043 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2294043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Ronald A Dye , Shyam Sunder
Why Not Allow the FASB and IASB Standards to Compete in the , p. 257 - 71 Posted: 2001-09
Crossref
Stella Fearnley , Shyam Sunder
The Headlong Rush to Global Standards
The Financial Times Posted: 2005-10-27
Stella Fearnley , Shyam Sunder
Global Reporting Standards: The Esperanto of Accounting
Accountancy Posted: 2006-05
Stella Fearnley , Shyam Sunder
Competition Required to Reduce Standards Complexities
The Financial Times Posted: 2007-05-17
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,679
RANK
461,979
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies