Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moonscape of Tax Equality: Windsor and Beyond

Northwestern University Law Review Colloquy, 2013, Forthcoming

U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-22

17 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2013 Last revised: 11 Sep 2013

Anthony C. Infanti

University of Pittsburgh - School of Law

Date Written: July 1, 2013

Abstract

This essay takes a critical look at the tax fallout from the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in United States v. Windsor, which declared section three of the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional. The essay is important because, while other federal laws will apply to some same-sex couples some of the time, the federal tax laws are a concern for all same-sex couples all of the time. The essay is timely because it addresses the recently issued IRS guidance regarding the tax treatment of same-sex couples.

In this essay, I first describe the path that led to the decision in Windsor. Then, I turn to describing the ways in which the post-Windsor tax terrain may actually be worse for same-sex couples than the bleak tax landscape that they faced before that decision. Under DOMA, same-sex couples already faced a debilitating level of uncertainty in determining how the federal tax laws applied to their relationships. Post-Windsor, same-sex couples will see this uncertainty multiply — even after receiving guidance from the IRS on the implementation of the Windsor decision in the federal tax context. They will have to grapple not only with lingering questions surrounding the federal tax treatment of relationships that are not recognized, but also with new questions regarding whether and how their relationships will be recognized for federal tax purposes. Moreover, it seems that dispatching discrimination designed to erode the progress of same-sex couples toward formal equality has served only to entrench the privileged status of marriage in our federal tax laws rather than fostering the recognition of a broader array of human relationships.

Keywords: lesbian, gay, bisexual, LGBT, gay marriage, same-sex marriage, civil union, domestic partnership, tax, revenue ruling 2013-17, equality, equity, gender, class, sexual orientation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Infanti, Anthony C., The Moonscape of Tax Equality: Windsor and Beyond (July 1, 2013). Northwestern University Law Review Colloquy, 2013, Forthcoming, U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2295597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Id
Id
959, 964. 15 881 F. Supp. 2d , volume 294 Posted: 2012
Id
F Supp
aff'd 699 F.3d 169 (2d Cir. 2012), aff'd, 2013 WL 3196928 , p. 2 - 394 Posted: 2013-06-26
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
505,351
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pittsburgh School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies