Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Jurisdiction to Tax 'Nowhere' Activity

Virginia Tax Review, 2013, Forthcoming

Arizona Legal Studies Discussion Paper No. 13-35

49 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2013

John A. Swain

University of Arizona - James E. Rogers College of Law

Walter Hellerstein

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: July 2013

Abstract

A recurring problem in the taxation of cross-border economic activity is jurisdiction to tax so-called “nowhere” activities, e.g., activities occurring in a jurisdiction that does not have the power to tax. As an economic matter, failure to tax these activities skews the competitive playing field in favor of firms with nowhere income or property, resulting in efficiency (and revenue) losses. States are well aware of this problem, and they have proposed and adopted a variety of approaches to ensure “full accountability” of multi-state income and property. These approaches all have the effect of re-assigning nowhere activities to states that have (apparent) authority to impose a tax, thus raising both tax policy and constitutional questions. From a tax policy perspective, one may contend that however laudable the goal of full accountability may be, it is illogical to posit two contrasting methods for sourcing taxable activity depending entirely on whether the activity is or is not taxable in another jurisdiction. From a constitutional perspective, sourcing rules that arguably have an extraterritorial reach implicate both Due Process and Commerce Clause concerns. Indeed, the recent U.S. Supreme Court case of Polar Tankers, Inc. v. City of Valdez raised – but did not reach – the question of how to resolve these competing claims in the context of the property taxation of oceangoing vessels. This article demonstrates that properly designed statutes that in practical effect absorb nowhere values reflect both good tax policy and are consistent with constitutional constraints on the states’ taxing power. It does so by re-examining the two commonly accepted predicates for states to tax: residence and source. Underlying both these concepts is the notion that states provide benefits, opportunities and protections for which they can ask something in return. Thus, state tax apportionment formulas are not so much about making abstract determinations of where income or other taxable values are geographically located, but rather how to apportion a tax base among the jurisdictions that provide such benefits, opportunities and protections.

Keywords: jurisdiction, due process, commerce clause, apportionment, residence, source, state taxation, state tax, nowhere income, nowhere activity

Suggested Citation:

Swain, John A. and Hellerstein, Walter, State Jurisdiction to Tax 'Nowhere' Activity (July 2013). Virginia Tax Review, 2013, Forthcoming , Arizona Legal Studies Discussion Paper No. 13-35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2297606
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
The most recent rejection of a facial constitutional challenge to a throwout rule reinforces our view about the likelihood that such a challenge will succeed. See infra Part IV(B)(2) (discussing the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision in Whirlpool)
Illinois Central , R R V Minnesota
, volume 157 Posted: 1940
Crossref
Container Corp. of America v. Franchise Tax Bd Posted: 1983
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
807
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,708
RANK
70,218
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies