Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Versus Notional Income Splitting: What Canada Should Learn from the US 'Innocent Spouse' Problem

3 Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne 2013

Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 63/2014

16 Pages Posted: 3 Aug 2013 Last revised: 14 Nov 2014

Lisa Philipps

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: July 24, 2013

Abstract

Canada’s individual tax unit historically has allowed a spouse to report only income over which she or he has legal control. Income splitting therefore typically requires transferring ownership of income earning property in some fashion. I refer to this as ‘real’ income splitting to contrast it with the purely notional assignment of income to a spouse’s tax return, first introduced in 2007 for pension income only. This ‘notional’ income splitting allowed spouses for the first time to shift income between their individual tax returns to achieve a lower tax rate, without any obligation to share the underlying pension entitlement. The federal government has promised to expand notional income splitting to benefit all couples with dependent children once the federal deficit is eliminated (currently projected for 2015-16). This paper challenges advocates of income splitting to address its differential impact on men and women and argues that notional income splitting worsens gender economic inequality. It highlights the egregious risk that under notional income splitting some individuals, overwhelmingly women, will be targeted for enforcement actions to collect unpaid taxes on income they have never received or controlled. Known in the U.S. as the “innocent spouse” problem it is the most acute, but not the only way in which women are systematically disadvantaged by notional income splitting. Of broader concern are the economic incentives created by notional income splitting for second earners to be financial dependents, rather than income earners or property holders in their own right. The paper urges Canadian policy makers, if they are intent on liberalizing spousal income splitting, to condition it upon a transfer of legal control over income or property to the lower-earning spouse.

Keywords: personal income tax policy, income splitting, gender, Canada, U.S., innocent spouse, pension income splitting

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Philipps, Lisa, Real Versus Notional Income Splitting: What Canada Should Learn from the US 'Innocent Spouse' Problem (July 24, 2013). 3 Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne 2013, Osgoode Legal Studies Research Paper No. 63/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2297812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2297812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,416
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies