Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'Gradualistic Approach' of the European Court of Justice as a Judicial Solution to Tax Integration Issues: An EU-US Debate

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2297920

22 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2013

Carlo Garbarino

Bocconi University - Department of Law

Date Written: July 24, 2013

Abstract

This paper relies on the empirical descriptive work developed in a previous paper that developed an empirical analysis of the in which a broad sample of tax cases of the ECJ cases is covered exploring the Court’s use of the “comparability analysis”, and on that basis specifically addresses the criticisms that have recently surfaced in the current U.S. legal discourse on the judicial standards adopted by the ECJ in those cases. The paper shows that, with some exceptions, the Court has developed a remarkable set of criteria of comparability inspired by the idea of market efficiency. A claim is made that the Court’s methodology provides a partial escape from of the “labyrinth of impossibility” imposed by the lack of harmonization of standards of comparability (origin vs destination standard) and of tax rates, and a two-step approach is proposed that at the same time describes what the Court is already doing and recommends what the Court should do to add transparency to its approach.

Keywords: tax law, comparative taxation, comparative tax law, tax case law, tax integration, profit shifting, corporate tax, European court of justice, ECJ, cross-border tax issues

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, The 'Gradualistic Approach' of the European Court of Justice as a Judicial Solution to Tax Integration Issues: An EU-US Debate (July 24, 2013). Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2297920, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2297920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2297920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Internal Consistency Test
Crossref
This would involve weighing a Member State's interest in pursuing its tax policy goals by means of the challenged tax legislation against the burdens imposed on intra-Community commerce by such legislation: Flunking the Test
Jerome R Hellerstein , Walter Hellerstein , State Taxation , Ch
For a summary of the main points: Christiana Panayi, Multistate Cumulative Tax Burdens and Reliefs in the European Community Lessons from the United States, 30 EUR. TAX'N
Various authors have discussed the relevance of the U.S. experience for the EU , volume 7 Posted: 2005
Walter Hellerstein , &amp; Charles , E Mclure
Lost in Translation: Contextual Considerations in Evaluating the Relevance of US Experience for the European Commission's Company Taxation Proposals, 58 BULL. INT'L FISC. DOC Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,051
RANK
672,864
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies