Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Ponzi Scheme Can Be a Source of Income

23 Canadian Current Tax 9, June 2013

12 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2013

Gabrielle St-Hilaire

University Of Ottawa - Common Law Section

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

In October 2012, the Federal Court of Appeal ruled in Johnson v Canada that a Ponzi scheme can be a source of income for a participant, and is therefore subject to tax. Leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada was refused. Johnson argued in the Tax Court of Canada that the receipts were not subject to tax because they were not income from a source per section 3 of the Income Tax Act.

The Tax Court applied the principle and indicia set out in Cranswick in determining whether the applicant's received amounts were “income from a source”. The Tax Court found that, as nothing was invested and nothing was actually earned, the capital investment was not the source of the amounts received. The Federal Court of Appeal disagreed, on a different conception of the facts. The returns on the scheme were taxable as income from a source – namely, property. The Federal Court of Appeal noted that a participant in a Ponzi scheme whose profits are taxable might, in the appropriate circumstances, be allowed to deduct related losses. It was hoped that the Supreme Court of Canada would allow Ms. Johnson's application for leave to appeal and clarify the application of the problematic wording in Hammill, the taxability of returns of “investors” who profit from Ponzi schemes, and the scope of section 3 and paragraph 3(a) of the Income Tax Act.

Keywords: Canada, Canadian, law, legal, tax, taxation, Supreme Court, appeal, Ponzi, scheme, scam, fraud, Income Tax, Act, court, income from a source, Johnson v Canada, profit, taxable, property

Suggested Citation:

St-Hilaire, Gabrielle, A Ponzi Scheme Can Be a Source of Income (June 1, 2013). 23 Canadian Current Tax 9, June 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2297071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
RANK
534,865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies