Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Behind the Numbers: Insights into Large Audit Firm Sampling Policies

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2013 Last revised: 14 Aug 2015

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Randal J. Elder

Syracuse University

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Date Written: February 12, 2014

Abstract

Changes in the audit industry after Sarbanes-Oxley have potentially changed the nature and extent of audit sampling in the largest accounting firms. However, little academic evidence exists on current audit sampling policies in place at the largest accounting firms (Elder et al. 2013). As such, we administer an extensive, open-ended survey to the national office of the Big 4 and two other international accounting firms regarding their firm’s audit sampling policies. We find variation among the largest auditing firms’ policies in their use of statistical and nonstatistical sampling methods and in inputs used in the sampling applications that could result in different sample sizes. Sampling experts’ internal reviews indicate that responding to and resolving identified misstatements is one of the biggest difficulties that audit engagement teams face when using sampling techniques. Finally, we present evidence that some firms have significantly changed their approach to revenue testing due to PCAOB inspections. This evidence provides important insights into current sampling policies and presents opportunities for future research.

Keywords: Audit sampling, statistical sampling, materiality, audit misstatements

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Elder, Randy and Glover, Steven M., Behind the Numbers: Insights into Large Audit Firm Sampling Policies (February 12, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2298632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2298632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
A Akresh
Statistical sampling in public accounting
The CPA Journal , volume 50 , issue 7 , p. 20 - 26 Posted: 1980
A Akresh , K Tatum
Audit sampling-dealing with the problems
Journal of Accountancy , p. 58 - 64 Posted: 1988-12
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2012. Audit Sampling Guide
M Beasley , J Carcello , D Hermanson
Fraudulent Financial Reporting: 1987-1997: An Analysis of Public Companies. Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 1999
Load more
1 Citations
Steven J. Kachelmeier , Ben W. Van Landuyt
Prompting the Benefit of the Doubt: The Joint Effect of Auditor-Client Social Bonds and Measurement Uncertainty on Audit Adjustments
Journal of Accounting Research 55 (4): 963-994, 2017 · 48 Pages · Posted: 11 Apr 2016 · Last revised: 5 Sep 2017 · Downloads: 434
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
739
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,570
RANK
78,964
1 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies