Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'GAAR' and 'Rule of Law': Mutually Incompatible?

Chartered Accountant Practice Journal, Vol. 43 (August 2013) (pp. 424-444)

21 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2013

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: August 16, 2013

Abstract

Pursued on the avowed premise that ‘tax avoidance, like tax evasion, seriously undermines the achievements of the public finance objective of collecting revenues in an efficient, equitable and effective manner’, the intent underlying the General Anti-Avoidance Rules of GAAR has found unequivocal resonance with the Government of India and its publicly stated desire to position GAAR as a pivotal ingredient of the direct tax laws of the country. While the Indian judiciary remains unfazed with the heated debate on ‘substance versus form’ or ‘doctrine of commercial substance’ and continues to pursue the Duke of Westminster principle, the Indian Parliament has chosen to adopt a head-on stand and has legislated GAAR in the Indian income tax law. Even though the implementation of GAAR has been deferred for the time being, like the Damocles sword, the GAAR provisions continue to occupy an overarching position in the law and sooner or later will come to haunt the subjects of these tax laws.

In the wake of these developments this paper makes an attempt to examine the judicial acceptability of GAAR in the event the overriding powers vested with the tax-administration in terms of these rules is subjected to challenge before the country. The principle hypothesis of this paper is to examine, upon an appraisal of the statutory provisions as existing in the income tax law of India (amended as lately as in 2013), whether GAAR would run foul of the ‘rule of law’ which has been declared as an inviolable tenet of the constitutional ethos permeating the Indian legal system.

The paper is dividend into ten parts. The first part is the introduction and sets out the relevant considerations to put the appraisal exercise in context. The second part revisits the attributes of the legal system perceived as restraint by the tax-administration to appraise the factors pressing the need for GAAR. The third part examines the factors surrounding the first unveiling of GAAR in the Indian context to note the facets of the GAAR introduced as a part of the draft Direct Tax Code Bill in 2009 culminating in the Direct Tax Code Bill 2010. The fourth part examines threadbare the statutory provisions relating to GAAR as introduced (with corresponding amendments) in the Income Tax Act, 1961. The fifth and sixth parts revisit the foundational elements of the ‘rule of law’ regime generally and in the Indian legal system specifically in their respective content. The seventh part examines the relevant ‘rule of law’ considerations appropriate for testing the permissibility of action in terms of GAAR. In the eight and ninth part this paper examines, albeit briefly, the legal position relating to GAAR in Canada and New Zealand respectively to cull out their experience with GAAR of these similarly placed commonwealth jurisdictions. Based on a holistic appraisal of these factors the tenth and the last part to draw the conclusions thereon.

Keywords: GAAR, Anti-Avoidance Rules, Constitutional Law, Administrative Law, Rule of Law

JEL Classification: K10, K19, K34, K42, E62, H23, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, 'GAAR' and 'Rule of Law': Mutually Incompatible? (August 16, 2013). Chartered Accountant Practice Journal, Vol. 43 (August 2013) (pp. 424-444), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2298520
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,605
RANK
225,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies