Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Group Taxation: The Slow Lane to New Policies in Canada and the EU

28 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2013

Martha O'Brien

University of Victoria - Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 24, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines some of the policy options put forward in the course of the recent public consultation by the Canadian federal Department of Finance, and the proposal of the Commission of the European Union, for systems of corporate group taxation (CGT). Building on the recent articles addressing the Canadian situation and the responses to the Department of Finance (hereafter "Finance") consultation, it seeks to expand that analysis to the policy choices adopted in the EU proposal. It may seem incongruous to compare the corporate tax system of a long-standing federal state, with almost complete harmonization of its sub-national tax bases already in place, to that of a somewhat shaky, not-yet-federal supranational system which has only the most necessary and rudimentary instruments of harmonization in place. However, in many ways the common consolidated corporate tax base ("CCCTB" or "3CTB") proposed for the EU can serve as the closest comparator to Canada’s federal system, as Canada considers the adoption of a formal, legislated CGT. There are both substantive and procedural similarities and differences which may help in identifying model systems for each.

Keywords: taxation, EU, Canada, CCCTB, corporation, harmonization

Suggested Citation:

O'Brien, Martha, Corporate Group Taxation: The Slow Lane to New Policies in Canada and the EU (July 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2298150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2298150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
RANK
357,528
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies