Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Canada's Transfer Pricing Test in the Aftermath of GlaxoSmithKline Inc.: A Critique of the Reasonable Business Person Test

International Transfer Pricing Journal, 2013 (Volume 20), No. 3

Posted: 30 Jul 2013 Last revised: 12 Aug 2016

Amir Pichhadze

University of Oxford

Date Written: May 15, 2013

Abstract

GlaxoSmithKline Inc. v. The Queen is a seminal Canadian transfer pricing case. On final appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada, the Minister of National Revenue asked the Court to determine whether the Court of Appeal erred in applying the reasonable business person test. The author critically analyses the Supreme Court’s handling of the Minister’s question and concludes that the Supreme Court erred in affirming the test of the Court of Appeal. Moreover, the Supreme Court infused further uncertainty as to which test applies by seeming to have acknowledged the relevance of both an empirical arm’s length test and a reasonable business person test.

Keywords: Transfer pricing, Arm’s Length Standard, Arm’s Length Principle, Reasonable Business Person, GlaxoSmithKline, Canada, OECD, Tax, International Tax, Tax Court of Canada, Federal Court of Appeal, Supreme Court of Canada

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, H29, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pichhadze, Amir, Canada's Transfer Pricing Test in the Aftermath of GlaxoSmithKline Inc.: A Critique of the Reasonable Business Person Test (May 15, 2013). International Transfer Pricing Journal, 2013 (Volume 20), No. 3 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2302606
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies