Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Meaningful Corporate Tax Residence

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 5, 2013

10 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: July 29, 2013

Abstract

Tax avoidance strategies of well-known U.S. multinationals such as Apple Inc., Microsoft Corp., and Hewlett-Packard Co. have received much attention recently. Multinationals' use of foreign shell entities to shift income away from the United States is subject to scrutiny. The debate is primarily about the sourcing of income, not about the tax residence of the corporate entities involved. That is hardly surprising, because many view the tax residence of corporations as meaningless. That meaninglessness is occasionally cited to support the adoption of a territorial system of taxation, in which residence is arguably less relevant for tax outcomes.

This report summarizes some conclusions from a forthcoming Boston College Law Review article in which Marian recommends a fresh look at corporate tax residence. Marian argues that the perception of meaninglessness is a result of misguided normative discussion and that it cannot be avoided by adopting a territorial system. In his report, Marian develops a functional model under which corporate tax residence tests are designed to support the policy purposes of corporate taxation, and the tests are not independently justified in normative terms. A functional approach suggests that the United States should adopt a corporate tax residence test under which domestic corporations for tax purposes are corporations whose securities are listed for public trading in the United States, or whose place of central management and control is in the United States.

Keywords: International Tax, Corporate Tax, Tax Jurisdiction, Tax Residence

JEL Classification: E62, H2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Meaningful Corporate Tax Residence (July 29, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 5, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2303764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Avi-Yonah
Why Was the U.S. Corporate Tax Enacted in 1909?'' Studies in the History of Tax Law , volume 2 Posted: 2007
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah
A Perspective on Supra-Nationality in Tax Law
Yariv Brauner and Pasquale Pistone (eds.), Taxation and the BRICS, IBFD 2015, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 425, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-019 Pages: 7 Posted: 14 Oct 2014 Last revised: 30 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Marjorie E Kornhauser
Corporate Regulation and the Origins of the Corporate Income Tax
L Ind
J Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,545
RANK
200,226
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies