Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-Assessing the Merits of Measuring Tax Evasions through Surveys: Evidence from Serbian Firms

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 13-047

31 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013

Thorben Kundt

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Department of Economics

Florian Misch

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research; International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Birger Nerre

Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH

Date Written: July 15, 2013

Abstract

This paper addresses the major weakness of measuring tax evasion through business and household surveys, namely the reluctance of respondents to answer truthfully due to the threat of disclosure. First, we assess the merits of a novel questioning method to gather information about tax evasion by means of business surveys. This approach allows estimating the prevalence of tax evasion, but it does not allow identifying whether the individual firm engages in tax evasion or not, therefore providing incentives for survey participants to answer truthfully. Second and contrary to most other business surveys, we differentiate between two common modes of tax evasion, namely underreporting of sales and informal supplements to official wages (‘envelope wages’). Using evidence from Serbia, we show that the estimated share of firms which underreport sales and wages, respectively, by at least 10% is higher under the crosswise model compared to the case when conventional questioning methods applied in business surveys such as the World Bank Enterprise Surveys are used. However, the difference is only significant with respect to sales. These results appear to be robust to a number of modifications, and we explore various potential causes that lead to these results.

Keywords: tax evasion, shadow economy, measurement, developing countries

JEL Classification: H20, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kundt, Thorben and Misch, Florian and Nerre, Birger, Re-Assessing the Merits of Measuring Tax Evasions through Surveys: Evidence from Serbian Firms (July 15, 2013). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 13-047, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2304645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
S S Aitken , L Bonneville
A General Taxpayer Opinion Survey. Prepared for the Office of Planning and Research
Internal Revenue Service Posted: 1980
J Alm
Measuring, explaining, and controlling tax evasion: lessons from theory, experiments, and field studies
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 54 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J Alm , C Mcclellan
Tax Morale and Tax Compliance from the Firm's Perspective
Kyklos , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
The efficiency cost of tax enforcement: evidence from a panel of Spanish firms Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,733
RANK
668,003
4 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies