Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey of the Section 336(e) Regulations

Tax Strategies for Corporate Acquisitions, Dispositions, Spin-Offs, Joint Ventures, Financings, Reorganizations and Restructurings (Practicing Law Institute 2013)

University of Tennessee Legal Studies Research Paper No. 221

76 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013 Last revised: 5 Sep 2013

Don Leatherman

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Winston College of Law

Date Written: September 2013

Abstract

Under § 336(e), if one corporation owns an affiliated interest in the stock of a second corporation and sells, exchanges, or distributes all of that stock, Congress has authorized a regulatory election to treat the transfer of the second corporation’s stock as a disposition of its assets, thereby avoiding recognized gain or loss on the sale, exchange, or distribution of that stock. Congress added § 336(e) to the Code in the Tax Reform Act of 1986, intending that it be implemented using "principles similar to those of section 338(h)(10)." Thus, § 336(e) has a purpose similar to § 338(h)(10), offering taxpayers relief from a potential multiple taxation at the corporate level of the same economic gain, which may result when a transfer of appreciated corporate stock is taxed without providing a corresponding step-up in basis of the assets of the corporation.

Final regulations, published in the Federal Register on May 15, 2013, apply § 336(e) by employing a structure and principles like those under the § 338(h)(10) regulations, using those regulations as a template. Despite many similarities, the two regulatory regimes differ in several important respects, including the following: First, although both require the transfer of an affiliated interest in target stock by a corporation, § 338(h)(10) looks to the purchase of that stock interest, while § 336(e) focuses on its disposition. Thus, the § 338(h)(10) regulations (as do the § 338 regulations generally) consider what is purchased, while the § 336(e) regulations measure what is sold, exchanged, or distributed. Second, for § 338(h)(10) to apply to a non-S corporation target, on the date that the affiliated interest in the target is first acquired by purchase (the "acquisition" date), the target must be a member of the consolidated group or affiliated with a selling domestic corporation. In contrast, under the § 336(e) regulations, a § 336(e) election may be made for the target even if it is not affiliated with the selling corporation or a member of the selling consolidated group on the corresponding date (the "disposition" date). Finally, if a § 338(h)(10) election is made, a gain recognition election is required, while a gain recognition election for a purchaser may not be required following a § 336(e) election.

Those differences raise numerous technical difficulties, which the article describes. It also illustrates those difficulties through examples, focusing on S corporations and consolidated groups. Finally, the article suggests ways to amend the regulations to address those difficulties.

Keywords: deemed sale, deemed purchase, 336(e), 338(h)(10)

Suggested Citation:

Leatherman, Don, A Survey of the Section 336(e) Regulations (September 2013). Tax Strategies for Corporate Acquisitions, Dispositions, Spin-Offs, Joint Ventures, Financings, Reorganizations and Restructurings (Practicing Law Institute 2013) , University of Tennessee Legal Studies Research Paper No. 221, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,442
RANK
454,090
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Tennessee, Knoxville - Winston College of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies