Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Officers' Fiduciary Duties and the Nature of Corporate Organs

University of Illinois Law Review, Vol. 2013, No. 3

Illinois Program in Law, Behavior and Social Science Paper No. LBSS14-04

Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 13-49

23 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2013

Amitai Aviram

University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: May 6, 2013

Abstract

The nature of officers’ fiduciary duties (and in particular whether the Business Judgment Rule applies to officers) is the subject of heated scholarly debate and conflicting case law. This Article analyzes the question using a neglected conceptual tool: the corporate organ.

Corporate organs are bodies that act on behalf of the corporation but are not subject to its control and thus are not governed by agency law (the board of directors is the prototypical organ). This Article argues that corporate organs differ from, and complement, the other type of corporate actor (corporate agents) in the allocation of discretion whether to approve acts that are in the fiduciary duty penumbra. For agents, this oversight function is given to the beneficiary (the principal); for organs, it is given to judges.

The nature of an officer’s fiduciary duties depends on whether oversight by the beneficiary, or by judges, would maximize accountability. The answer differs between officers, so in contrast to the arguments of both sides of the debate, officers should not be uniformly classified as agents or organs. Such classification is best left to private ordering. Extant law allows for such private ordering but provides officers with an incentive to maintain an ambiguous status. This Article suggests tweaks to the law that would incentivize officers to self-select their status as organs or agents.

Keywords: corporate organ, principal-agent, fiduciary duties, business judgment rule, corporate officer

JEL Classification: D23, D78, K22, K41, L21

Suggested Citation:

Aviram, Amitai, Officers' Fiduciary Duties and the Nature of Corporate Organs (May 6, 2013). University of Illinois Law Review, Vol. 2013, No. 3, Illinois Program in Law, Behavior and Social Science Paper No. LBSS14-04, Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 13-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Id
On the interpretation of Gantler as extending the BJR to officers, see supra note 18. 77. See id , p. 710 - 721
80. As mentioned supra note 17, this Article does not address claims involving horizontal (majoritarian) agency problems, in which fiduciary duties may be owed to minority shareholders. 81
See supra Section II.B.1. 79. The board may rely on officers' representations and analysis under section 141(e) of the Delaware General Corporation Law
Rales V Blasband
634 A.2d 927 , p. 933 - 967 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,015
RANK
238,435
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Illinois College of Law Program in Law, Behavior & Social Science Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies