Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Consequences of Partnership Break-Ups: A Primer on Partnership Sales and Liquidations

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 3, 2013

UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 343

81 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2013

Daniel L. Simmons

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: July 31, 2013

Abstract

This Article is a practical exploration of the tax consequences of the alternatives for reducing a partner’s interest: by sale or by a liquidation distribution. Partnerships and limited liability companies do not last forever. Indeed, there comes a point in the life of many partnerships when it is time to retire or to eliminate the interest of one or more partners. There are essentially two forms of transactions for reducing or terminating the interest of a partner: a sale of the partner’s interest to another partner or a third party or a distribution from the partnership in liquidation of the partner’s interest. In some cases the economic effect of a sale or distribution will be the same. The binary nature of this choice, however, is deceptively simple. The variable tax consequences inherent in sales and liquidations of a partner’s interest raise some of the most complex issues in tax law that involve both technical and numerical challenges. In addition, although these issues arise at the reduction or termination of an interest, planning at the formation of a partnership is critical to resolution of questions about the termination of a partner’s interest. With examples, the Article is an attempt to guide the practitioner through an analysis of the statutory and regulatory rules affecting the taxation of sales and liquidation of a partner’s interest looking at the tax consequences to both the partners and the partnership. Although the Article is not an attempt to achieve the impossible — simplifying the excruciatingly complex analysis — the article tries to provide an analytical foundation for the myriad of difficult questions that arise on the context of removing a partner’s interest.

Suggested Citation:

Simmons, Daniel L., The Tax Consequences of Partnership Break-Ups: A Primer on Partnership Sales and Liquidations (July 31, 2013). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 3, 2013, UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 343, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2304478
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Id
The transaction predated enactment of section 1031(a)(3), applicable to transactions after July 18, 1984. See Deficit Reduction Act of 1984
It also predated the regulations providing for deferred exchanges through a qualified intermediary
Stat , volume 494 Posted: 1991-06-10
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
949
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,362
RANK
56,255
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Davis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies