Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Cryptocurrencies 'Super' Tax Havens?

112 Michigan Law Review First Impressions 38 (2013)

11 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2013 Last revised: 25 Mar 2014

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

I describe the mechanisms by which cryptocurrencies — a subcategory of virtual currencies — could replace tax havens as the weapon-of-choice for tax-evaders. I argue such outcome is reasonably expected in the foreseeable future due to the contemporary convergence of two processes. The first process is the increasing popularity of cryptocurrencies, of which Bitcoin is the most widely recognized example. The second process is the transformation of financial intermediaries to agents in the service of tax authorities, as part of the fight against offshore tax evasion. Financial institutions are faced with increased governmental pressure to deliver information about account holders, to withhold taxes from earnings accumulating in financial accounts, and to remit such taxes to taxing authorities around the world. Significantly, cryptocurrencies possess all the traditional characteristics that tax haves do; Earnings are not subject to taxation, and taxpayers’ anonymity is maintained. The operation of cryptocurrencies, however, is not dependent on the existence of financial intermediaries. Thus, cryptocurrencies have the potential of defeating the recent successes of governments in battling offshore tax evasion. I further suggest that while governments have paid some attention to this issue, they have so far failed to identify the acuteness of the potential problem.

Keywords: Bitcoin, Tax Evasion, Tax Havens, FATCA, Virtual Currencies, Offshore Bank Accounts

JEL Classification: E62, H2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Are Cryptocurrencies 'Super' Tax Havens? (October 1, 2013). 112 Michigan Law Review First Impressions 38 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2305863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Org , Econ , Co , Dev , Harmful , Competition
AN EMERGING GLOBAL ISSUE , volume 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Jane G Gravelle , Congressional Research Service , R40623 , Tax Havens
INTERNATIONAL TAX AVOIDANCE AND EVASION , volume 1 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Richard Murphy
Tax Us If You Can
TAX JUST. NETWORK , volume 1 Posted: 2005-09
E G See , Leandra Lederman
discussing voluntary disclosure as "a tool in the fight against international tax noncompliance"). Multiple commentators have analogized governments' efforts to curb offshore-based tax evasion to a "battle" or a "war , volume 499 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
38,638
RANK
2,836
6 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies