Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What's Wrong with a Federal Inheritance Tax?

38 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2013 Last revised: 17 Sep 2013

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: August 4, 2013

Abstract

Scholars have proposed a federal inheritance tax as an alternative to the current federal transfer tax, but there are serious flaws with that idea. In existing inheritance tax systems, those problems include: (1) different tax rates and exemptions based on the decedent’s relationship to the beneficiary; (2) the lack of a tax on lifetime gratuitous transfers, including gifts with retained interests or control; and (3) the persistence of most current valuation distortion abuses. In any inheritance tax model, moreover, there would be significantly decreased compliance rates and increased administrative costs because by focusing on the transferees instead of the transferor, an inheritance tax would multiply the number of taxpayers subject to the tax.

This article reviews common characteristics of existing inheritance tax systems in our U.S. states and internationally, particularly in Europe. In addition, the article analyzes the novel Comprehensive Inheritance Tax (CIT) proposal of Professor Batchelder that combines some elements of existing inheritance tax systems with some features of the current transfer tax system and delivers the CIT through the federal income tax system.

Inequities abound in typical inheritance tax systems where rates and exemptions are tied to the relationship between the transferor and the transferee. Rewarding or punishing a relationship status between the transferor and transferee is not a good measure of ability to pay or an effective means of wealth redistribution. Moreover, where an inheritance tax system exempts gifts, the lack of a gift tax produces inequities since it is the very wealthiest of decedents who are most able to avoid an inheritance tax through early lifetime transfers. Finally, most compelling are the compliance issues and administrative costs that would increase with the adoption of a federal inheritance tax.

Keywords: inheritance tax, estate tax, equity, compliance, legislation

JEL Classification: D31, D63, H20, H23, H26, H29, H71, K19, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., What's Wrong with a Federal Inheritance Tax? (August 4, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2305696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2305696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Professor Batchelder intended for the CIT to correct the poor public image of the estate tax as the "death tax
See Hines
, volume 50 , p. 190 - 191
Batchelder
The comprehensive inheritance tax includes a clear response to death tax imagery by targeting the behavior of the donor before death
Rev , volume 221 , issue 7 Posted: 2009
Former policy analyst Aron-Dine is also skeptical of that result. See Aron-Dine, supra note 6, at 266 ("Realistically, it does not seem to me that the proposal will lead wealthy decedents to split their estates into, say, $500,000 bequests to each of twenty needy, or even middle-income, people. Rather, what the proposal seems more likely to do is to encourage splitting large estates into $2 million bequests to a somewhat larger number of reasonably well-off people
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,505
RANK
320,086
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies