Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Elections and Tactical Settlements

Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 39, 2013 Forthcoming

University of Memphis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 125

41 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2013 Last revised: 11 Aug 2013

Lee Harris

University of Memphis - Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law

Date Written: March 8, 2013

Abstract

Once yearly, shareholders get an opportunity to vote on who shall serve on the board of directors. From time to time, these elections for board seats are contested. In a contested election the incumbent board is exposed to the risk that a challenger might succeed in winning a seat on the board and oust the incumbent. Once a contested corporate election begins, the board of directors has limited options. Their fate is sealed and in the hands of shareholder voters. Yet, before the voting begins, savvy boards are relatively adept at avoiding the challenge through tactical settlements. For instance, in 2008, Carl Icahn agreed to give up his challenge for control of Yahoo’s board of directors in exchange for three board seats on the company’s 11-member board. In the same year, Motorola’s board settled a potential fight over control with Icahn by giving up two board seats. Two years later, Genzyme, a large pharmaceutical concern, also agreed to give Mr. Icahn a couple of board seats if he would abandon his contest for control of the board. Shortly, when there is a challenge, the incumbent board is often clever enough to entice potential challengers to drop their bid in exchange for board seats, along with a negotiated payment to the challenger to purportedly reimburse the challengers’ expenses. Through these settlements, even when there is a potential corporate election that might give shareholders a meaningful choice about who will serve on the board of directors and, as important, the strategic direction of the firm, directors are able to sidestep a shareholder vote. Although not previously theorized or examined empirically, settlements allow boards of directors to effectively manage and avoid corporate elections and meaningful shareholder votes. This Article is the first to examine the theory and empirical evidence behind board decisions to settle with challengers in order to avoid a shareholder vote.

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Lee, Corporate Elections and Tactical Settlements (March 8, 2013). Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 39, 2013 Forthcoming , University of Memphis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 125, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2306151
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
&amp; Ikenberry , Lakonishok
at 424 (comparing executive turnover rates at firms where challengers win no seats, 24 percent, to executive turnover rates at firms where challengers win at least one seat, 58 percent)
For detailed case studies of managerial resignations and other changes in a sample of 20 firms, see See DeAngelo & DeAngelo, supra note 14 , p. 52 - 58
See generally DeAngelo & DeAngelo, supra note 14, at 29 (noting the widely held view that proxy contests enable stockholders "to discipline incumbent managers who fail to maximize firm value
M Richard , V Duvall &amp; Douglass , Austin
Predicting the Results of Proxy Contests
J. FIN , volume 464 Posted: 1965
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,397
RANK
653,956
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies