Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Treatment of Charitable Contributions in a Personal Income Tax: Lessons from Theory and Canadian Experience

Matthew Harding, Ann O’Connell and Miranda Stewart (eds), Not-for-Profit Law: Theoretical and Comparative Perspectives (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2014), Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2013 Last revised: 11 Aug 2013

David G. Duff

Peter A. Allard School of Law, University of British Columbia; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 31, 2013

Abstract

A hundred years after tax concessions for charitable contributions were introduced as part of the personal income taxes that many countries enacted during the First World War, these countries continue to debate the appropriate level and structure of tax concessions for charitable gifts. This chapter considers the tax treatment of charitable contributions in a personal income tax, reviewing and evaluating alternative rationales for tax recognition of charitable gifts as well as the implications of these rationales for the form that tax recognition should take, and examining recent Canadian experience in light of these rationales.

Keywords: Charitable Donations, Charities, Deductions, Credits, Personal Income Tax

JEL Classification: H24, H20, H31

Suggested Citation:

Duff, David G. and Duff, David G., Tax Treatment of Charitable Contributions in a Personal Income Tax: Lessons from Theory and Canadian Experience (July 31, 2013). Matthew Harding, Ann O’Connell and Miranda Stewart (eds), Not-for-Profit Law: Theoretical and Comparative Perspectives (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2014), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2306190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
An Analysis of Panel Data Posted: 2002
American Economic Review
Crossref
C Arthur , Brooks
Income Tax Policy and Charitable Giving
Journal of Policy Analysis and Management Posted: 0599
Jon Bakija , T Bradley , Heim
How Does Charitable Giving Respond to Incentives and Income? New Estimates from Panel Data
National Tax Journal Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
RANK
478,514
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies