Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Loving' Return Preparer Regulation

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 5, 2013

13 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2013

Bryan Camp

Texas Tech University School of Law

Date Written: July 29, 2013

Abstract

In 2011 the Department of Treasury issued regulations that, for the first time, empowered the IRS to regulate the practice of preparing tax returns. Naturally, many tax return preparers were not happy about being regulated by the Feds. In 2013 a federal district judge nuked the regulations, holding that Congress has not authorized Treasury to empower the IRS to regulate return preparers. The lead plaintiff was named Loving.

This article takes a critical look at whether the IRS can regulate return preparers. In so doing, it teaches three lessons.

First, it traces the legal history of the 1884 statute where Congress first authorized regulation of "the practice of representatives of persons before the Department of the Treasury." Note that 1884 was both after and before Congress had imposed a tax on income and so was created during a time where most federal revenue derived from "external" taxes (e.g. customs duties) and "internal" excise taxes.

Second, the article attacks the long-cherished belief that ours is a tax system of "self-assessment." The article teaches why this is untrue both as a matter of law and as a matter of fact. Further, the article explains why a belief in "self-assessment" may not be a benign platitude: it can lead to some fundamental misunderstandings of U.S. tax administration.

Third, the article closely examines and refutes the best arguments on why tax return preparers cannot currently be regulated under existing law. The article does not discuss whether regulation of tax return preparers is good policy -- it assumes such regulation is good policy and refers the interested reader to sources supporting that assumption. Instead, the article focuses on whether Treasury has sufficient statutory authority to bring all tax return preparers under its regulatory regime embodied in Circular 230.

Keywords: tax administration, Circular 230, tax returns, returns, preparer, tax return preparer regulation, income tax, 1884, Boasberg, Loving, Loving v. Commissioner

JEL Classification: B30, K23, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

Camp, Bryan T., 'Loving' Return Preparer Regulation (July 29, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 5, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2306020
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,918
RANK
318,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal History eJournal

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies