Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Armageddon Routs Law Again

UC Davis Business Law Journal, Forthcoming

Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-31

52 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2013 Last revised: 28 Sep 2013

Nicholas L. Georgakopoulos

Indiana University - Robert H. McKinney School of Law

Date Written: August 10, 2013

Abstract

This essay, after highlighting the unique aspects of financial markets, offers a mostly rational account for financial crises, centering on the 2008 crisis as an example. Market participants may overestimate the duration of high productivity growth due to new technologies and produce occasional — and likely unavoidable — bubbles. Considering potential changes in the regulation of financial markets, the conclusion is grim. Regulators have exhausted the effective legal levers against overestimations of continued high growth. The legislative responses to the last few crises were unproductive and pro-cyclical whereas public finance needs a counter-cyclical approach, souring euphorias and enthusing out of slumps. A meaningful improvement would be the constitutional movement of financial legislative authority to a body with the independence to be counter-cyclical.

Keywords: Financial Crisis, Bubbles, Irrationalities, Great Recession, Dodd-Frank, Euphorias, Bank runs

JEL Classification: G18, G28, K23

Suggested Citation:

Georgakopoulos, Nicholas L., Financial Armageddon Routs Law Again (August 10, 2013). UC Davis Business Law Journal, Forthcoming, Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2308382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2308382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
However
Europe has suffered much more. See generally Nicholas L. Georgakopoulos, Lessons from Greco-Multilateralism for Creditors, 28 Conn
J. Int'l L , volume 21 Posted: 2012
L Nicholas
Crossref
Nicholas L. Georgakopoulos
Eurozone Bank Crisis & Federalism
Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law Research Paper No. 2012-29 Pages: 29 Posted: 10 Nov 2012 Last revised: 15 Dec 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E G See , S Frank , Alexander
Mortgage Prepayment: The Trial of Common Sense
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,661
RANK
724,701
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies