Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Auditor’s Ethical Dilemma: Perceived Threat to Auditor’s Responsibility Posed by the Auditor’s Allegiance to Corporate Management

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 14(3): 665-691 (2013)

27 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2013

Willie E. Gist

Ohio University - School of Accountancy

Winifred Scott

Zayed University

Trimbak Shastri

University of Louisville - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: August 9, 2013

Abstract

Major accounting scandals and audit failures (such as Enron and WorldCom) during the turn of the century seriously impaired the public’s confidence and trust in audited financial statements. This had cast a shadow on auditor independence, integrity and professional conduct, and led to the collapse of Arthur Andersen (AA), one of the then Big-5 public accounting firms. Some have argued that auditors align their interest with that of corporate management instead of investors and the general public because audit fees are paid by management. This leads to the following question: do auditors appear to compromise their independence and align with their clients’ interest rather than shareholders’ interest? Our examination of audit fees charged by the Big-5 to a sample of companies investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reveals that auditors (except for AA) appear to recognize engagement risk at an increased level for SEC investigated audit clients. Accordingly, SEC investigated clients are charged higher audit fees than non-SEC investigated clients. However, AA appeared not to distinguish the engagement risk differences between its SEC investigated and non-SEC investigated clients. Results overall suggest that auditors fulfill their professional responsibility of serving the public interest by maintaining client-auditor independence and objectivity. Although the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has been implemented, misleading and fraudulent financial reporting persist, which suggests that there is room for improving audit quality. Accordingly, we provide suggestions to strengthen both audit quality and professional conduct (particularly regarding auditor independence) to enhance the public’s confidence in audited financial statements.

Keywords: Audit Fees, SEC Investigation, Audit Quality, Ethics, Auditor Independence

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, M14

Suggested Citation:

Gist, Willie E. and Scott, Winifred and Shastri, Trimbak, External Auditor’s Ethical Dilemma: Perceived Threat to Auditor’s Responsibility Posed by the Auditor’s Allegiance to Corporate Management (August 9, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 14(3): 665-691 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2308175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Pcaob Release No
Posted: 2008-12-08
Crossref
The CPA firms are: BDO Seidman, LLP; Crowe Chizek and Company LLC
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Crossref
Llp Ernst &amp; Young
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
768
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,550
RANK
75,106
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies