Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Income Taxation of Medical Marijuana Businesses

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 2, 2013

U Denver Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-38

55 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2013

Edward J. Roche

University of Denver Sturm College of Law

Date Written: August 12, 2013

Abstract

Eighteen states and the District of Columbia have "legalized" the use of medical marijuana. Medical marijuana, however, remains a "controlled substance" under federal law. This puts medical marijuana businesses in a "Catch 22" situation, where their operations are legal under state law but violate federal law. Additionally, because medical marijuana remains illegal under federal law, section 280E denies medical marijuana businesses the ability to deduct their ordinary and necessary business expenses.

Section 280E represents a departure from the longstanding practice of generally taxing illegal businesses in the same manner as legal businesses and effectively causes medical marijuana businesses to be taxed on their gross income rather than their net income. Medical marijuana businesses are, however, allowed to reduce their gross revenue by cost of goods sold in arriving at gross income. This puts medical marijuana businesses in the unusual position of wanting to capitalize as many of their otherwise deductible expenses to inventory as possible, unlike most businesses, which would prefer a current deduction.

Medical marijuana businesses should comply willingly with the full absorption and UNICAP inventory rules, where they are required by law to do so, but most medical marijuana businesses will not be subject to these rules. Nevertheless, a medical marijuana business should voluntarily comply with these rules if not required to do so. Medical marijuana businesses should also take advantage of the provisions under full absorption and UNICAP inventory rules that permit a taxpayer to elect to include certain costs in inventory, including special allocation rules that permit the capitalization of all of an expense if a portion of the expense is subject to capitalization. Further, medical marijuana businesses should capitalize expenses entirely excepted from the full absorption and UNICAP inventory rules, such as on-site storage expenses, as properly allocable to inventory, based on the argument that the exceptions are provided to reduce the burden of these rules but that capitalization nevertheless represents a better reflection of income.

The Article also addresses the dilemma that lawyers and accountants face in providing services to medical marijuana businesses — practitioners could be considered to be "aiding and abetting" a criminal enterprise, subjecting them to federal criminal sanctions. The only two state rulings on whether an attorney can ethically provide advice to medical marijuana businesses under the Model Rules are divided on the subject. Although not free from doubt, practitioners should not run into trouble for preparing the tax return of a medical marijuana business.

Legislative or administrative solutions to the problems section 280E causes medical marijuana businesses appear unlikely given the unwillingness of elected and government officials to openly support the legalization of medical marijuana.

Suggested Citation:

Roche, Edward J., Federal Income Taxation of Medical Marijuana Businesses (August 12, 2013). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 66, No. 2, 2013, U Denver Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2308946 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2308946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
E G See
Alaska Medical Marijuana Act, Measure , volume 8 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Arizona Proposition 203, titled
Arizona Medical Marijuana Act Posted: 2010
California Proposition 215, the Compassionate Use Act of Posted: 1996
Colorado Marijuana Act, Amendment , volume 20 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Sam Kamin
The Battle of the Bulge: The Surprising Last Stand Against State Marijuana Legalization
45(3) Publius: The Journal of Federalism 427 (summer 2015)., U Denver Legal Studies Research Paper No. 15-48 · 26 Pages · Posted: 19 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,872
RANK
29,375
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Denver Sturm College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies