Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Case of Dr. Jekyll and the Estate Tax Marital Deduction: Should Prenuptial Agreements Alter the Relationship?

Northern Illinois University Law Review, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2013

University of Toledo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-12

39 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2013 Last revised: 15 Nov 2013

Kelly Moore

University of Toledo College of Law

Date Written: February 15, 2013

Abstract

This Article joins the chorus of those criticizing the use of the economic unit presumption, using a song sheet involving prenuptial agreements to do so. To make this criticism, this Article considers a discrete question: Should married individuals be able to avail themselves of the 100% estate tax marital deduction when their marriage is governed by a prenuptial agreement? Put another way, should the existence of a prenuptial agreement ever rebut the economic unit presumption? Or, do the elements of simplicity and administrative ease gained through the use of the economic unit presumption still support the presumption even if there is a written agreement undercutting, in some fashion, the existence of an economic unit? The 100% marital deduction provides a benefit to married individuals. Should they be allowed this benefit if they have avoided the burdens associated with marriage, in some manner, by executing a prenuptial agreement? In considering this discrete question, the use of marriage as the only proxy for the economic unit presumption is accepted. Given the lack of a baseline of economic activity between spouses with which to determine if they actually function as economic units, the use of marriage as a proxy for the economic unit presumption adds an element of simplicity to the Transfer Tax Code and eases enforcement concerns associated with determining the transfer tax consequences of intramarriage transfers. For discussion purposes, the use of the economic presumption is accepted, generally, outside of the context of marriages governed by prenuptial agreements.

Keywords: economic unit, estate tax, marital deduction, prenuptial

Suggested Citation:

Moore, Kelly, The Curious Case of Dr. Jekyll and the Estate Tax Marital Deduction: Should Prenuptial Agreements Alter the Relationship? (February 15, 2013). Northern Illinois University Law Review, Vol. 33, No. 2, 2013, University of Toledo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
998
RANK
534,865
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies