Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Theory of Complex Valuation

113 Michigan Law Review 1175 (2015)

44 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2013 Last revised: 19 Jun 2015

Anthony Casey

University of Chicago Law School; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Julia Ann Simon-Kerr

University of Connecticut - School of Law

Date Written: August 15, 2013

Abstract

Complex valuations of assets, companies, government programs, damages, and the like cannot be done without expertise, yet judges routinely pick an arbitrary value that falls somewhere between the extreme numbers suggested by competing experts. This creates costly uncertainty and undermines the legitimacy of the court. Proposals to remedy this well-recognized difficulty have become increasingly convoluted. As a result, no solution has been effectively adopted and the problem persists. This Article suggests that the valuation dilemma stems from a misconception of the inquiry involved. Courts have treated valuation as its own special type of inquiry distinct from traditional fact-finding. We show that reintroducing fundamental principles of fact-finding can provide a simpler and more accurate method of complex valuation.

Our conclusion rests on the premise that valuations are nothing more than exercises in routine fact-finding. Valuation is not an ethereal question with no right answer. Rather, valuation is a process of inferring the value that a relevant community places on an asset. This basic point has been ignored in practice and received almost no attention in the academy. Recognizing this foundational point can both restore the legitimacy of the process and reduce the costs of uncertainty and biased testimony. We demonstrate that a return to traditional evidentiary rules, including attention to burdens of proof, will discourage courts from resorting to ad hoc calculations and will encourage courts to arrive at valuations through vetted methodologies that are shown to be reasonably accurate and, most importantly, supported by the record. We further show that this will lead to an improvement in the quality of information provided by expert witnesses.

Keywords: evidence, civil procedure, bankruptcy, tax, valuation, experts, tort, judicial behavior

Suggested Citation:

Casey, Anthony and Simon-Kerr, Julia Ann, A Simple Theory of Complex Valuation (August 15, 2013). 113 Michigan Law Review 1175 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310650 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2310650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E G See , E Barry
Adler & Ian Ayres, A Dilution Mechanism for Valuing Corporations in Bankruptcy
Yale L
J , volume 83 , p. 133 - 167 Posted: 2001
Barry E Adler
Game-Theoretic Bankruptcy Valuation, 41
J. Legal Stud , volume 209 , p. 218 - 237 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Casey
, p. 801 - 810
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,840
RANK
331,643
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies