Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Base Erosion: Reformation of Section 482’s Arm’s Length Standard

15 Florida Tax Review 737 (2014)

U of Houston Law Center No. 2014-A-7

61 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2013 Last revised: 1 May 2014

Bret Wells

University of Houston Law Center

Cym Lowell

McDermott, Will & Emery

Date Written: August 15, 2013

Abstract

The United States has repeatedly attempted to stop tax base erosion for almost the entire post-World War I era, and yet the same problems exist today. The need for fundamental tax reform is front-page material in the major newspapers with the US transfer pricing rules and US multinationals portrayed as public enemy #1. This year, the OECD issued a report entitled “Addressing Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” and last month it issued a “Action Plan” for how it plans to proceed to address base erosion and profit-shifting. In a competing fashion, several important developing countries have initiated their own pact to develop cooperative strategies on these issues outside of the framework of the OECD and UN. It is fair to say that a solution to the base erosion and profit-shifting practices of multinational corporations is the “holy grail” of international tax policy.

The attached manuscript proposes a solution to the base erosion and profit-shifting phenomenon in what many believe is an unlikely place: within the arm’s length standard itself. The article analyzes the historic US transfer pricing cases and regulatory developments that have lead to the profit-shifting abuses that plague the US tax system. After isolating the flaws that create the current transfer pricing mistakes in the multinational corporation context, the article then sets forth reforms to the U.S. transfer pricing rules that, if enacted, would correct these mistakes and in the process would solve the base erosion and profit-shifting problems that plague the existing US tax system. The article adds to the existing literature by providing a straightforward and unique cure to a problem that has plagued our nation since the end of the post-World War I era.

Suggested Citation:

Wells, Bret and Lowell, Cym, Tax Base Erosion: Reformation of Section 482’s Arm’s Length Standard (August 15, 2013). 15 Florida Tax Review 737 (2014), U of Houston Law Center No. 2014-A-7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2310882 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2310882
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Id
A comparison of potential alternative structures is set out in Part IV. A comparison of these alternatives and our proposal is set out in Part V. 151. See supra note 35
See Foreign Trade and Investment Act, H.R. 62, 93rd Cong Posted: 1973
Crossref
S , Cong
President Carter announced an intention to end deferral entirely in 1978. See Message from the President of the United States, Transmitting Proposals for Tax Reductions and Reform
Fact Sheet on John Kerry's Plan to Create 10 Million Jobs , volume 283 , p. 527 - 555 Posted: 1971
Kerry
Territorial" Tax Reform, supra note 14. 154. The Obama Administration's 2011 budget proposed to expand the scope of Subpart F to currently tax "excessive" returns from transfers of intangible property to "low-tax" jurisdictions. See STAFF OF JOINT COMM. ON TAXATION, 111TH CONG., DESCRIPTION OF REVENUE PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN THE 1. Failure to Address Inbound Erosion Residency-based solutions (like subpart F reforms) that leave in place the preference for One-Sided Transfer Pricing Methodologies and then attempt to ring-fence the resulting transfer pricing mistakes are underinclusive because such residency-based reform proposals only address U.S. MNEs in an ad hoc manner and entirely ignore the HI/BEPS strategies of non-U.S. MNEs. In reality, the HI/BEPS problem is equally present with both U.S. and non-U.S. MNEs. 158 Consequently, residency-based reforms that target U.S. MNEs and leave non-U.S. MNEs free to base-erode the United States creates incentives for U.S. MNEs to search for base erosion strategies
's election platform tax plan sought to immediately tax all corporate income, whether earned domestically or internationally. Id. 153. See Michael Durst Posted: 2011-01-25
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
832
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,205
RANK
67,462
4 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Houston Law Center, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies