Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Impossible Tax Reform Possible

Fordham Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 5, 2013

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1232

47 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2013 Last revised: 26 Sep 2013

Susannah Camic Tahk

University of Wisconsin Law School

Date Written: August 16, 2013

Abstract

The United States has long struggled to reform its federal income tax code. Despite enthusiastic and widespread bipartisan support for tax reform laws that would eliminate special-interest loopholes, the legislative process has been paralyzed when it comes to passing these laws. This Article proposes a solution to this seemingly intractable federal tax lawmaking paralysis. This paralysis arises because tax reform spreads its benefits among broad groups while concentrating its costs on narrow ones. Political science theory accurately predicts that laws with this cost-benefit allocation will fail. However, federal lawmakers can overcome tax lawmaking paralysis by distributing tax reform's costs and benefits differently. In particular, the federal government can do this by following the examples of states that have successfully escaped tax lawmaking paralysis by earmarking taxes for specific purposes. This Article examines the phenomenon of earmarking and examines several instances of earmarked state taxes. In so doing, this Article argues that earmarking tax revenues for particular purposes offers an opportunity for lawmakers to permanently reform the tax code at last.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, tax reform, earmarked taxes

Suggested Citation:

Camic Tahk, Susannah, Making Impossible Tax Reform Possible (August 16, 2013). Fordham Law Review, Vol. 81, No. 5, 2013, Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1232, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2311389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
E G See , P Clayton , Gillette
Bondholders and Financially Stressed Municipalities, 30 FORDHAM URB
L.J , volume 639 , p. 658 - 664 Posted: 2012
J , Clark Archer &amp; David , R Reynolds
Locational Logrolling and Citizen Support of Municipal Bond Proposals: The Example of St. Louis, 27 PUB
200. Id. at 27. 201. Id. at 25. 202. Id. 203. Id. 204. Id. at 27. gadamsiii 3/20/13 4:48 PM Formatted: Font:Times New Roman , volume 21 Posted: 1976
James M Glaser , White Voters
Black Schools: Structuring Racial Choices with a Checklist Ballot, 46
AM. J. POL. SCI , volume 35 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Id
Political science scholarship has noted that referenda often lack the partisan cues usually present on ballots. For that reason, endorsements and other elite cues can help voters figure out how to vote in the absence of the usual partisan information. See Susan Banducci, Searching for Ideological Consistency in Direct Legislation Voting
Many earmarked taxes first become law through referenda, and the informationproviding role that interest groups can play becomes particularly important in the context of referenda Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
618,773
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies