Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Embracing the Queen of Hearts: Deference to Retroactive Tax Rules

Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 40, No. 2, 2013

Penn State Law Research Paper No. 32-2013

41 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2013

James M. Puckett

Pennsylvania State University - Penn State Dickinson Law

Date Written: August 17, 2013

Abstract

The Supreme Court’s decision in Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research v. United States underscored the importance of a uniform approach to judicial review of administrative action; accordingly, the Court clarified that tax administration is generally subject to the same review as other kinds of administrative action by other federal agencies. Tax guidance from the IRS and Treasury Department serves an important role in clarifying the tax law so that taxpayers may report their tax liability accurately and plan their affairs. Meanwhile, aggressive attempts by a relatively small number of taxpayers to avoid tax liability by exploiting arguable ambiguities in the tax law present a perennial challenge for tax administration. In either case, as long as statutory and regulatory ambiguities exist, some surprises in the form of retroactive resolutions of uncertain tax positions are inevitable; the issue is who decides? Because of the Internal Revenue Code’s unusual grant of retroactive rulemaking power to the Treasury Department, tax administration cannot simply be collapsed with all other administrative action into a uniform framework of judicial review. This Article attempts to shed light on judicial review of more typical prospective tax guidance in part by drawing from the special case of retroactive tax guidance. This Article also argues that the general approach to judicial review of administrative action, as infused by the Code’s express grants of retroactive rulemaking power, affords the IRS and Treasury flexibility to make policy retroactively through rulemaking and receive deference from the courts. Moreover, though some constitutional limitations on retroactivity exist, the retroactive administrative clarification of an ambiguity should not be unconstitutional. Finally, this Article briefly assesses strengths and weaknesses of the current regime and the principal alternatives.

Keywords: tax administration, rulemaking, retroactive rules, retroactivity, Mayo, Home Concrete, Chevron, Skidmore, temporary regulations

Suggested Citation:

Puckett, James M., Embracing the Queen of Hearts: Deference to Retroactive Tax Rules (August 17, 2013). Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 40, No. 2, 2013, Penn State Law Research Paper No. 32-2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2311810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Id
at 30-31 (quoting Pension Benefit Guar , p. 729 - 759 Posted: 1984
Id
32. 205. 305 , volume 134 Posted: 1938
Crossref
See Robert , R Gunning
Back from the Dead: The Resurgence of Due Process Challenges to Retroactive Tax Legislation, 47 DUQ
L. REV , volume 291 , p. 312 - 334 Posted: 2009
Id
2079. 213. Id , p. 2079 - 82
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
663,174
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Penn State Dickinson Law Legal Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies