Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Family Involvement on CEO Turnover: Evidence from Colombian Family Firms

45 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2013 Last revised: 22 Jul 2014

Maximiliano Gonzalez

Universidad de los Andes; Universidad de los Andes, Colombia - School of Management

Alexander Guzmán

CESA School of Business

Carlos Pombo

Universidad de los Andes, Colombia - School of Management

Maria-Andrea Trujillo

CESA School of Business

Date Written: July 21, 2014

Abstract

Manuscript Type: Empirical

Research Question/Issue: How sensitive is CEO turnover to firm performance in the context of family firms?

Research Findings/Insights: Using a detailed database of mostly non-listed Colombian firms, we find that family ownership (direct and indirect through pyramidal structure) reduces the probability of CEO turnover when financial performance has been poor, but found the opposite effect when families participate actively on the board of directors. These results hold even when the manager is a family member, although the probability of turnover is lower for a family member. This lower probability does not affect the financial performance of the firm. In other words a benevolent entrenchment of the family CEO seems to occur.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: First, the theoretical premise that bad financial performance usually leads to changes in top management has been widely tested around the world; however, this study is among the few to deal with this issue in terms of closely held firms’ micro-data. Second, our results contribute to the growing literature on agency problems inside family firms. Third, this study contributes to the empirical literature of corporate governance in family firms for an under-studied region that has gained relevance in the world economy.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: Usually family firms are treated as a single unit, ignoring the different ways families may influence governance decisions. This study considers family involvement in three dimensions: management, ownership (direct and indirect), and control, and shows that the impact of family in governance decisions is not uniform and depends largely on the different ways family is involved in business.

Keywords: family businesses, CEO turnover, family control

JEL Classification: G3, G34

Suggested Citation:

Gonzalez, Maximiliano and Guzman, Alexander and Pombo, Carlos and Trujillo, María-Andrea, The Role of Family Involvement on CEO Turnover: Evidence from Colombian Family Firms (July 21, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2312229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2312229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 3 , p. 1301 - 1328 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Andres
Large shareholders and firm performance -an empirical examination of founding-family ownership
Journal of Corporate Finance , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 445 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Barclay , C Holderness
Private benefits from control of public corporations
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 371 - 395 Posted: 1989
Crossref
C Bettinelli
Boards of Directors in Family Firms: An Exploratory Study of Structure and Group Process
Family Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 151 - 169 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
5 Citations
Belen Villalonga , María-Andrea Trujillo , Alexander Guzman , Neila Caceres
What Are Boards For? Evidence from Closely Held Firms in Colombia
Villalonga, B. , Trujillo, M. , Guzmán, A. and Cáceres, N. (2018), What are Boards for? Evidence from Closely Held Firms in Colombia. Financial Management. Accepted Author Manuscript. . doi:10.1111/fima.12224, · 66 Pages · Posted: 20 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 7 Jun 2018 · Downloads: 459
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Bassam Farah , Rida Elias , Cristine de Clercy , W. Glenn Rowe
Leadership Succession in Different Types of Organizations: What Business and Political Successions May Learn From Each Other
The Leadership Quarterly. Vol 31, No 1 (2020) · 21 Pages · Posted: 3 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yekun Xu , Ruohan Zhong , Guangyuan Ma
Does Informational Tax Enforcement Matter to Earnings Management? Evidence from Chinese Family Firms
ECMODE-D-24-00084 · 56 Pages · Posted: 26 Jan 2024 · Downloads: 6
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Krunal Mehta , Neha Verma
Family Business Research in Emerging Markets: Bibliometric Literature Review and Thematic Content Analyses
JFBS-D-24-00017 · 48 Pages · Posted: 14 Feb 2024 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,715
RANK
347,495
5 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies