Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equity and Liabilities – A Discussion of IAS 32 and a Critique of the Classification

Accounting in Europe 10 (2), 201-222, 2012

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 19 Aug 2013 Last revised: 22 Jul 2017

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: October 1, 2012

Abstract

It is a traditional convention in accounting to distinguish between two classes of claims, liabilities and equity. The International Accounting Standards Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board have been using a dichotomous classification approach, adhering to this convention. However, over the recent years, this approach has been put under stress. First, there is an ever-growing variety of hybrid financial instruments, some of which designed to exploit this classification approach (accounting arbitrage). Second, the adoption of IFRS in Europe and elsewhere has brought scenarios to light in which the classification approach does not result in decision-useful information. These issues arise when IFRS are applied by entities in legal forms other than a private or public limited company. This essay discusses IAS 32 in the light of the historic origins of the dichotomous classification approach, the recent standard-setting activities and a review of the empirical research. This essay suggests that a reconsideration of the traditional dichotomous classification might be a way forward.

Keywords: Capital structure, equity, debt, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), liabilities, United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US-GAAP)

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Schmidt, Martin, Equity and Liabilities – A Discussion of IAS 32 and a Critique of the Classification (October 1, 2012). Accounting in Europe 10 (2), 201-222, 2012, ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2312285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2312285
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,476
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies