Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whistle-Blower Awards and the Bank Secrecy Act: Mutually Exclusive?

Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, CCH-Wolters Kluwer Publishers, pp. 23-29, Feb.-March 2013

7 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2013

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: February 2013

Abstract

Tax whistle-blowers provide valuable leads and often offer unique insights to compliance challenged taxpayers. The IRS must act promptly when receiving specific and credible information regarding tax compliance issues when that information can be corroborated through examination activity. In these situations, the IRS Whistle-Blower Office is charged with processing financial awards to people who provide information about the tax indiscretions of others.

Although ongoing tax-related enforcement actions have generated payment of considerable penalties associated with violations of the Bank Secrecy Act in a Memorandum for Stephen A. Whitlock, Director of the IRS Whistle-Blower Office, IRS Counsel determined that these BSA-related recoveries may not be considered for purposes of computing the amount of the award under Code Sec. 7623.

The whistle-blower statute is intended to provide valuable leads to the IRS which effectively preserves other precious tax enforcement resources. Information provided by whistle-blowers is helpful when IRS resources are being stretched thin and compliance functions curtailed. Further, a visible, well-respected IRS whistle-blower program increases public interest in the program and could cause countless otherwise compliance-challenged taxpayers to voluntarily comply ... deterrence can be a persuasive and relatively inexpensive tax enforcement tool.

Keywords: BSA, tax whistle-blower, FBAR, IRS, tax enforcement, OVDP, OVDI

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Whistle-Blower Awards and the Bank Secrecy Act: Mutually Exclusive? (February 2013). Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, CCH-Wolters Kluwer Publishers, pp. 23-29, Feb.-March 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2313266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
the Old Fashioned Way! J. TAX PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Posted: 2012-05
Crossref
See Charles Rettig
Practice, IRS Provides Updated Guidance Regarding Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program
J. TAX PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE Posted: 2012-07
See Memorandum For Stephen , A Whitlock , Whistleblower Director , Offi
Associate Chief Counsel, General Legal Services re "Scope of Awards Payable under I.R.C. §7623 Posted: 2012-04-12
letter to Acting IRS Commissioner IRS Steven Miller from Dean Zerbe and Steve Kohn of the National Whistleblowers Center Posted: 2012-11-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,363
RANK
724,701
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies