Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perils of Partial Mark-to-Market Taxation

Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-34

36 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2013 Last revised: 23 Oct 2013

Thomas J. Brennan

Harvard Law School

Date Written: August 20, 2013

Abstract

As part of its proposal for comprehensive tax reform, the House Ways and Means Committee has suggested mark-to-market taxation for derivatives, but apparently not for the underlying assets. Such a partial mark-to-market system would create opportunities for investors to have negative effective tax rates and thereby extract billions of dollars from the U.S. Treasury on an annual basis. I explain the nature of such strategies, develop the underlying theory, and provide specific empirical examples of how they would have worked if the proposed regime had been in place historically. I also describe revisions to the reform proposal that would address the concerns that I raise. In light of my findings, I suggest that Congress either abandon or substantially revise the current proposal.

Keywords: financial products taxation, derivatives taxation, mark-to-market taxation, fundamental tax reform, tax arbitrage

JEL Classification: G10, G18, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brennan, Thomas J., Perils of Partial Mark-to-Market Taxation (August 20, 2013). Northwestern Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2313214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2313214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,673
RANK
256,498
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies