Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS' Double-Bogey: Goosen v Commissioner Remains a Fairway to Characterize Endorsement Income for Nonresident Alien Athletes in Garcia v Commissioner

Villanova Sports and Entertainment Law Journal, Vol. 20, No. 605, 2013

26 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2013

Seth Stern

Independent

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

The article discusses the taxation by the United States of endorsement income earned by non-resident alien athletes worldwide. Specifically, it tracks the evolution of relevant jurisprudence through its culmination in the recent Tax Court decision, Garcia v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, which builds upon its previous Goosen v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue. In doing so, the article notes the specific changes over time essential to distinguishing whether earnings should be classified as "endorsement" or "personal services" income, and whether they are "effectively connected" with a U.S. trade or business for tax purposes. Moreover, the author argues the need for a balance between the ability to promote domestic events and the ability for governments to adequately collect tax on income earned domestically, and how an imbalance recently caused issues in the United Kingdom leading up to the 2012 London Olympic Games.

Keywords: Taxation, Athletes, Sports Law, Endorsement Income, Personal Services Income

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Stern, Seth, The IRS' Double-Bogey: Goosen v Commissioner Remains a Fairway to Characterize Endorsement Income for Nonresident Alien Athletes in Garcia v Commissioner (June 1, 2013). Villanova Sports and Entertainment Law Journal, Vol. 20, No. 605, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2313947
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
See id. (summarizing provisions of endorsement contracts analyzed specifically by court's opinion)
BBCSPORT Posted: 2005-07-06
Crossref
Olympics
Crossref
Official Website Of Olympic See , Movement , London
Posted: 2012-10-24
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,553
RANK
601,250
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies