Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GAO to IRS: 'Pursue Quiet Disclosures and First Time FBAR Filers'

Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, CCH-Wolters Kluwer Publishers, pp. 21-28, June-July 2013

8 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2013

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: June 2013

Abstract

Recently, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report based on a review of the 2009 IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program (OVDP). The GAO Report recommended and the IRS agreed that going forward it should (1) use offshore data to identify and educate taxpayers who might not be aware of their reporting requirements; (2) explore options for employing a methodology to more effectively detect and pursue quiet disclosures and implement the best option; and (3) analyze first-time offshore account reporting trends to identify possible attempts to circumvent tax, interest and possibly penalties that might be due and take action to help ensure compliance.

Keywords: IRS, FBAR, OVDP, OVDI, offshore, GAO, BSA, Bank Secrecy Act, IRS examination, IRS enforcement, penalties, tax penalties, report

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., GAO to IRS: 'Pursue Quiet Disclosures and First Time FBAR Filers' (June 2013). Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, CCH-Wolters Kluwer Publishers, pp. 21-28, June-July 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2313256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Id
, volume 25
Crossref
Id
, volume 24
Id
, volume 25
Crossref
Id
, volume 26
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
RANK
549,213
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies