Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ratcheting Up the Duty: The Department of Labor's Misguided Attempt to Impose a Paternalistic Model Upon Defined Contribution Plans Through ERISA

75 Ohio State Law Journal, 2014 (Forthcoming)

44 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2013

Scott Mayland

Ohio State University (OSU) - Michael E. Moritz College of Law

Date Written: March 19, 2013

Abstract

This Note contends that the Department of Labor's efforts to heighten the fiduciary duties of those providing and administering defined contribution plans under ERISA will not accomplish increased retirement security. Part II describes the history of the enactment of ERISA and describes its original fiduciary standard, as well as the rise of defined contribution plans. The history illustrates that Congress did not intend to impart relatively high levels of fiduciary duty in almost every situation, because it could have done so in the statute and did not. Part III examines the Department of Labor's recent efforts to alter the law of directed trustees, broaden the definition of fiduciary to include many service providers, and impose new obligations upon plans' sponsors where the plan includes open brokerage window features. Although they did not meet with much success, there is a concerted effort to ratchet fiduciary duty through these actions. Part IV argues that the Department of Labor's recent actions conform to a paternalistic model because they have the impact of limiting employees' options. The Department will not increase retirement security by any measure because the financial industry will rather cease offering services than be subjected to the risk of accounting for employees' losses and other sanctions under ERISA. Part V proposes that the Department of Labor should redirect its efforts toward providing employees with the knowledge to make safe investment decisions themselves.

Keywords: ERISA, Department of Labor, pension plan, employee benefits, 401(k), defined contribution plan

Suggested Citation:

Mayland, Scott, Ratcheting Up the Duty: The Department of Labor's Misguided Attempt to Impose a Paternalistic Model Upon Defined Contribution Plans Through ERISA (March 19, 2013). 75 Ohio State Law Journal, 2014 (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2315814
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
41
ABSTRACT VIEWS
982
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Pension Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies