Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure as Collective Work

41 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2013 Last revised: 9 Jun 2019

Yasmine Chahed

The University of Manchester - Alliance Manchester Business School

Lisa Goh

Hang Seng University of Hong Kong - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 06, 2019

Abstract

While the social and economic impacts of how disclosures are presented are well-understood, it is less clear how disclosure decisions unfold throughout the annual reporting cycle. We study this issue by exploring the experience of interpreting and implementing corporate reporting rules, focusing on the production of Directors’ Remuneration Reports (DRRs) in the UK. Consistent with methods and theories from the anthropology of science, we observe three breaks from conventional wisdom about the production of “facts” in annual reports. First, we document the expansion of the disclosure decision to a network of diverse actors, with multiple sites of disclosure. Second, we find that there is no single moment of disclosure choice but rather repeated activity. Third, clear-cut individual or collective disclosure decisions are replaced with choices that remain debatable even after the annual report has been published. Overall, our findings concerning the alteration and multiplication of preferences in collective work processes contribute to a better understanding of the factors that affect the length and complexity of pay disclosures in annual reports.

Keywords: Executive remuneration; directors’ remuneration report; disclosure; compliance; collective work; translation; uncertainty; validation; mediation; hybrid forums

JEL Classification: M41, M48, M52, J33, D70, G30, K22

Suggested Citation:

Chahed, Yasmine and Goh, Lisa, Disclosure as Collective Work (June 06, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2316972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
122 References
A Abbott
Linked ecologies: States and universities as environments for professions
ABI principles of remuneration. London: Association of British Insurers , volume 23 , p. 245 - 274 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Abi
Response to the BIS consultation on "directors' pay: Revised remuneration reporting regulations
London: Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Posted: 2012
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Armour , H Hansmann , R Kraakman
Agency problems and legal strategies
The anatomy of corporate law: A comparative and functional approach , p. 35 - 54 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,424
RANK
250,867
3 Citations
122 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies