Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IPOs and the Slow Death of Section 5

41 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2013

Donald C. Langevoort

Georgetown University Law Center

Robert B. Thompson

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Since its enactment, Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 has restricted sales-based communications with investors, but that effort is nearly dead even with respect to the most sensitive of offerings, the IPO. Our paper traces that devolution, which began almost as soon as the ’33 Act came into existence, though the SEC’s 2005 de-regulatory reforms and Congress’ intervention in the JOBS Act of 2012. We show how much of this related to an embrace of “book-building” as the industry’s preferred method of price discovery, which requires private two-way communications between underwriters and potential sophisticated investors. But book-building (and the predictable IPO underpricing that results) has a retail dimension as well, and we point to ways in which the otherwise sensible deregulation may enable an over-stimulation of retail investor demand. We then explore two main justifications that have been given for the aggressive deregulation. The first is that any loss in prophylactic protection can be made up for by the threat of liability, particularly with an enhanced Section 12(a)(2). We find this unpersuasive for a variety of reasons. The other — amply visible in the long history of Section 5 — is a faith in the “filtration” process, that retail investors gain protection because of the availability of the preliminary prospectus during the waiting period, to those involved in the selling process if not the investors themselves. Putting aside the biased incentives that affect filtration, much of what is most important — and conveyed privately to the institutions in the course of book-building — is forward-looking information that probably need not appear in the formal disclosure, whether preliminary or final. None of this is an argument for returning to the old prophylactics of Section 5. But it is cause for the SEC and FINRA to pay close attention to the retail investor effects of the IPO selling practices, especially in the post-JOBS Act era.

Keywords: IPOs, securities offerings, securities regulation

JEL Classification: K00, K22, K23

Suggested Citation:

Langevoort, Donald C. and Thompson, Robert B., IPOs and the Slow Death of Section 5 (2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2316858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
in the first year, and are rewarded for holding by future allocations)
Reena Aggarwal
Allocation of Initial Public Offerings and Flipping Activity, 68
J. Fin. Econ , volume 111 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Id , Bradley
The IPO Quiet Period Revisited, 2
J. Inv. Mgt Posted: 2004
Pritchard
, volume 89 , p. 1014 - 1029
Load more
4 Citations
Ann Lipton
Not Everything is About Investors: The Case for Mandatory Stakeholder Disclosure
Yale Journal on Regulation, Forthcoming, Tulane Public Law Research Paper No. 19-11 · 74 Pages · Posted: 13 Aug 2019 · Last revised: 1 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 952
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Josephine Sandler (J.S.) Nelson
'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Corporate Crime
66 Pages · Posted: 8 Jun 2017 · Last revised: 3 Aug 2017 · Downloads: 391
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elena Precourt
The effect of the JOBS act on analyst coverage of emerging growth companies
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 86 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Alan D. Morrison , William J. Wilhelm
Trust, Reputation, and Law: the Evolution of Commitment in Investment Banking
Journal of Legal Analysis , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 363 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,670
RANK
210,213
4 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies