Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cars in Chapter 13: Does Negative Equity Destroy the Jurisdiction of the Hanging Paragraph?

American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , Vol. 20, No. 2, 2012

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 404

23 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2013 Last revised: 3 Oct 2013

David Gray Carlson

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: August 29, 2013

Abstract

Roughly speaking, the “hanging paragraph” to Bankruptcy Code 1325(a), enacted in 2005, requires that a debtor pay the full debt on any automobile acquired within 910 days before bankruptcy – a boon for car financiers. Prior to 2005 the debtor had to pay only the appraised value of the car – usually a lesser amount. But the privilege bestowed on car financiers by the hanging paragraph depends on the financier providing “purchase money” credit. About one-third of the time, however, the financier advances funds to repay a prior car loan as part of the “trade-in” of an old vehicle for a new one. This advance to retire old debt is nick-named “negative equity.” Does the presence of negative equity mean that the loan secured by the new car is not a purchase money loan? The courts have ruled, in the main, that the entire loan is a purchase money loan and so the hanging paragraph applies. Soft-hearted academics favor the debtor and claim that the hanging paragraph no longer applies if the new car secures both a purchase money obligation and the negative equity. This article points out that the financier has a “proceeds” security interest in the new car representing the trade-in of the old car. Therefore, if the old car was encumbered by a purchase money security interest and if the new car is proceeds of the old car, the new car is encumbered by the purchase money security interest that had previously encumbered the old car. On this logic, the courts are correct and the academics are wrong – unfortunately. This by no means implies that the hanging paragraph is wise policy.

Keywords: bankruptcy, Chapter 13, confirmation, autombiles, cars, security interests

Suggested Citation:

Carlson, David Gray, Cars in Chapter 13: Does Negative Equity Destroy the Jurisdiction of the Hanging Paragraph? (August 29, 2013). American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review , Vol. 20, No. 2, 2012, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 404, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2317973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Yaron Brook
The Morality of Moneylending: A Short History, 2 OBJECTIVE STANDARD: J. CULTURE & POL
H Robert , W Skilton &amp; Darrell , Dunham
Security Interests in Returned and Repossessed Goods under Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code Posted: 1981
App. 1993) (noting judgment lien attaches to after-acquired property automatically, thus giving judgment creditor priority)
See Resolution Trust Corp. v. Bopp, 850 P.2d , volume 939
See Grant Gilmore
The Purchase Money Priority, 76 HARV. L. REV. 1333, 1334 (1963) (explaining subsequent purchase money interests limit after-acquired property interest)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,241
RANK
819,727
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies