Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crossing the Tax Code's For-Profit/Nonprofit Border

118 Penn State Law Review 489

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1230

52 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013 Last revised: 10 May 2014

Susannah Camic Tahk

University of Wisconsin Law School

Date Written: August 28, 2013

Abstract

The federal tax code erects and enforces a firm border between for-profit and nonprofit organizations. Multiple provisions of the code monitor the boundaries of the tax-exempt, or nonprofit, sector to ensure that no nonprofit organization slips over the border to become a for-profit organization. Other code provisions restrict entry into the tax-exempt sector by for-profit organizations. Despite serious legal impediments, however, organizations on both sides of the boundary have increasingly found means by which they can cross the border. Arrangements such as corporate social responsibility, for-profit philanthropy, and social enterprise illustrate this recent trend. Through these arrangements, for-profit organizations are beginning to embrace social goals, while nonprofit organizations have started to use methods more traditionally associated with efficient business organizations. Research in organizational sociology provides tools by which to understand these new cross-border developments. This body of research has shown that organizational sectors, or fields, evolve according to well-understood patterns, whose significance tax scholars have overlooked. Then, federal tax law has failed to recognize and to make productive use of these organizational trends. This Article proposes that tax law should acknowledge the cross-sector movements of for-profit and nonprofit organizations, as well as the major advantages that these movements can produce. Tax law could then harness border-crossing activity to create social benefits. To achieve this result, federal tax law needs significantly to loosen the for-profit/nonprofit boundary. This change would enable the tax code to encourage cross-sector "collaborations" between for-profit and nonprofit organizations. This change to the tax law is one that Congress and the IRS could now accomplish through several basic measures. These measures would make it possible for federal tax law to realize the large potential for social good that lies at the changing for-profit/nonprofit border.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, federal income tax, exempt organizations, charities, organizations, law and society, law and sociology

Suggested Citation:

Camic Tahk, Susannah, Crossing the Tax Code's For-Profit/Nonprofit Border (August 28, 2013). 118 Penn State Law Review 489, Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1230, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2317566 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2317566
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Ida E Berger , Peggy H Cunningham &amp; Minette , E Drumwright
Social Alliances: Company/Nonprofit Collaborations , volume 58 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Catherine Alter &amp; Jerald Hage
ORGANIZATIONS WORKING TOGETHER , volume 12 Posted: 1992
Joseph Galaskiewicz , Michelle Sinclair Coleman
CLEMENS & GUTHRIE, supra note 10, at 196. See also Michelle Sinclair & Joseph Galaskiewicz, Corporate-Nonprofit Partnerships: Varieties and Covariates Posted: 1996
Crossref
Supra Austin , Note
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,620
RANK
302,340
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies