Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capturing Intellectual Capital 'Flows' Through Content Analysis Procedure: A New Approach in Interpreting Intellectual Capital Voluntary Disclosures

33 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2013 Last revised: 19 Jun 2024

Elissavet Kassotaki

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: September 26, 2012

Abstract

This paper presents an alternative way for content analysis implementation in order to disentangle and interpret intellectual capital (IC) voluntary disclosures. Content analysis technique has been widely used during the last decade to analyze and systematize intellectual capital reporting. In the recent literature the implementation of this technique usually incorporates frameworks which consider the basic IC categories as separate entities. In the present study an innovative implementation is proposed.

The proposed approach takes into consideration apart from the IC components per se their interactions as well. Relevant literature uses the term “flows” to indicate these interactions which are considered an important and integral part of intellectual capital substance. Therefore, we consider the proposed content analysis methodology to be more compatible with the communicative needs that intellectual capital reporting is expected to serve and, specifically, that of understanding the value creation process within the organization.

A pilot case study using as basis of analysis the annual report of 2009 of the National Bank of Greece, the biggest Greek bank, convincingly demonstrates that this new approach offers a better picture of the values creation paths within an organization compared to the traditional content analysis procedure. Value creation information is expected to be in line with the stakeholders’ information needs and useful to management for decision-making purposes.

Keywords: Intellectual capital reporting, Voluntary Disclosure, Disclosure quality, Content analysis, Banking Sector

JEL Classification: M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Kassotaki, Elissavet and Cohen, Sandra, Capturing Intellectual Capital 'Flows' Through Content Analysis Procedure: A New Approach in Interpreting Intellectual Capital Voluntary Disclosures (September 26, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2317849 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2317849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
I Abeysekera
The project of intellectual capital disclosure: researching the research
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 77 Posted: 2006
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosure trends: Singapore and Sri Lanka
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 723 - 737 Posted: 2008
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives in Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
M Abdolmohammadi
Intellectual capital disclosure and market capitalization
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 397 - 416 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,356
RANK
451,566
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Reporting of Intellectual Capital: Evidence from UK Companies

By Jeffrey Unerman, Ludmila Striukova, ...

Reporting Intellectual Capital in Spain

By Ester Oliveras and Yulia Kasperskaya

Intellectual Capital Disclosure Trends: Singapore and Sri Lanka

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies