Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Business Lobbying as an Informational Public Good: Can Tax Deductions for Lobbying Expenses Promote Transparency?

13 Election Law Journal 91 (2014)

56 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013 Last revised: 13 Mar 2015

Michael Halberstam

The Chandra Law Firm

Stuart Lazar

SUNY Buffalo Law School

Date Written: January 4, 2014

Abstract

The view that “lobbying is essentially an informational activity” has persistently served the suggestion that lobbying provides a public good by educating legislators about policy and the consequences of legislation.

In this article, we link a proposed tax reform with a substantive disclosure requirement to promote the kind of “information subsidy” that serves the public interest, while mitigating – at least to some extent – the distortion that may result from the imbalance of financial resources on the business side and other institutional contraints identified in the literature. We argue that corporate lobbying should be encouraged – by allowing business to deduct lobbying expenses – but only to the extent that the information subsidy that corporate lobbying supplies in fact educates lawmakers on complex policy issues. In other words, to the extent that lobbying supplies an informational public good, such information should actually be made generally available through full and timely publication, rather than inserted strategically into the legislative process at a time, and in such manner, that excludes others from using the information to assess the merits of proposed legislation.

Keywords: election law, legislation, tax, lobbying, disclosure, transparency, information, public law

Suggested Citation:

Halberstam, Michael and Lazar, Stuart, Business Lobbying as an Informational Public Good: Can Tax Deductions for Lobbying Expenses Promote Transparency? (January 4, 2014). 13 Election Law Journal 91 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2317533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2317533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Baumgartner
, volume 1
Crossref
Supra Briffault , Note
Posted: 2009
Crossref
Sussman
, volume 3
Crossref
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,547
RANK
644,872
1 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University at Buffalo School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies