Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Damages and Reliance under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 150

78 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013 Last revised: 31 Aug 2013

Joseph Grundfest

Stanford Law School

Date Written: August 28, 2013

Abstract

A textualist interpretation of the implied private right of action under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act concludes that the right to recover money damages in an aftermarket fraud can be no broader than the express right of recovery under Section 18(a) of the Exchange Act. The Act’s original legislative history and recent Supreme Court doctrine are consistent with this conclusion, as is the Act’s subsequent legislative history.

Section 18(a), however, requires that plaintiffs affirmatively demonstrate actual “eyeball” reliance as a precondition to recovery and does not permit a rebuttable presumption of reliance. Accordingly, if the Exchange Act is to be interpreted as a “harmonious whole,” with the scope of recovery under the implied Section 10(b) private right being no greater than the recovery available under the most analogous express remedy, Section 18(a), then Section 10(b) plaintiffs must either demonstrate actual reliance as a precondition to recovery of damages, or the Court should revisit Basic, as suggested by four justices in Amgen, and overturn Basic’s rebuttable presumption of reliance. A textualist approach thus provides a rationale for reversing Basic that avoids the complex debate over the validity of the efficient market hypothesis, an academic dispute that the Supreme Court is not optimally situated to referee.

Experience also demonstrates that Basic’s presumption of reliance, which is nominally rebuttable, is effectively irrebuttable once it attaches. This observation provides a further basis upon which to challenge Basic’s continuing vitality.

The implications of this analysis are potentially profound. If plaintiffs must affirmatively demonstrate actual reliance, then many Section 10(b) securities fraud class actions become uncertifiable because individual questions will predominate. Private securities fraud litigation would then likely be dominated by class actions asserting violations of Section 11 of the Securities Act as well as by a scrum of individual actions brought by larger investors with significant damage claims in major cases. The battle would then likely move to Congress which could legislate a rebuttable presumption of reliance, or otherwise amend the statute to reform the securities litigation process.

Keywords: Securities fraud, reliance, presumption of reliance, Basic v. Levinson, Amgen Inc. v. Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds, damages, Section 10(b), Rule 10b-5, Section 18

JEL Classification: K22, K41, K42

Suggested Citation:

Grundfest, Joseph A., Damages and Reliance under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act (August 28, 2013). Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper No. 150, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2317537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2317537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
214 References
Peeler Musick
, volume 294
Santa Fe Industries, Inc. v. Green, 430 U.S , volume 462 , p. 477 - 478 Posted: 1977
Crossref
ur cases considering the scope of conduct prohibited by § 10(b) in private suits have emphasized adherence to the statutory language, '[t]he starting point in every case involving construction of a statute
&amp; Ernst , Ernst
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Mukesh Bajaj , Sumon Mazumdar , Daniel A. McLaughlin
Assessing Market Efficiency for Reliance on the Fraud-on-the Market Doctrine After Wal-Mart and Amgen
Forthcoming in Research in Law and Economics · 51 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2013 · Last revised: 13 Dec 2013 · Downloads: 272
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Martin Gelter
Global Securities Litigation and Enforcement
, p. 3 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Tom C. W. Lin
Reasonable Investor(s)
95 Boston University Law Review, 461, 2015, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2015-20 · 58 Pages · Posted: 18 Mar 2015 · Last revised: 13 May 2015 · Downloads: 1,793
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ann Lipton
Fact or Fiction: Flawed Approaches to Evaluating Market Behavior in Securities Litigation
20 Tenn. J. Bus. L. 741 (2019) , Tulane Public Law Research Paper No. 19-1 · 36 Pages · Posted: 22 Oct 2018 · Last revised: 28 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 187
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
961
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,707
RANK
55,299
4 Citations
214 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford University Working Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Materiality and Magnitude: Event Studies in the Courtroom

By David Tabak and Frederick C. Dunbar

The Global Financial Crisis and the Efficient Market Hypothesis: What Have We Learned?

By Ray Ball

The Efficient Markets Hypothesis: The Demise of the Demon of Chance?

By Stephen J. Brown

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies