Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Worldwide Taxation of U. S. Citizens Living Abroad: Impact of FATCA and Two Proposals

George Mason Journal of International Commercial Law, Forthcoming

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3057

32 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2013 Last revised: 7 Sep 2013

J. Richard (Dick) Harvey

Villanova University School of Law and Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: March 1, 2013

Abstract

This article addresses several questions, including:       • Do US citizens living abroad face significant tax compliance burdens and have those burdens been further increased by FATCA?       • Do ultra-wealthy US citizens have an incentive to expatriate under current law, and should a deemed estate tax be imposed at the time of their expatriation?       • Does FATCA justify a change from a worldwide system of individual taxation to a residence-based system?       • Do the cumulative burdens on US citizens abroad justify legislative action?       • If so, what law changes should be considered?

The article concludes the answers to the first four questions are: (i) yes and yes, (ii) yes and yes, (iii) no, and (iv) yes. As to the fifth question, the article does not explicitly take a position on a worldwide vs. a residence-based system of taxation. Rather, two proposals are made. The first assumes Congress retains the existing worldwide tax system, while the second assumes Congress takes the unlikely step of adopting a residence-based tax system.

The goal of each proposal is to (i) reduce compliance burdens for citizens abroad, and (ii) minimize fairness and revenue issues. For example, if the US adopts a residence-based system, safeguards will clearly be necessary to avoid a material loss in tax revenue attributable to ultra-wealthy US citizens moving their residence abroad.

Keywords: US citizens abroad, expatriation, residence based taxation, FATCA, Internal Revenue Code sections 911 877A and 2801, worldwide taxation, estate tax, international tax planning

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, J. Richard, Worldwide Taxation of U. S. Citizens Living Abroad: Impact of FATCA and Two Proposals (March 1, 2013). George Mason Journal of International Commercial Law, Forthcoming, Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2013-3057, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2318463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Schneider
, volume 3 , p. 1 - 2
Nat&apos;l Taxpayer , Advocate
I R C See
, p. 901 - 910 Posted: 2013
I R C
, volume 911 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
957
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,315
RANK
55,609
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies