Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whither Choice of Entity?

51 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2013

Yariv Brauner

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: August 31, 2013

Abstract

The choice of entity is always a key decision during business planning. However, it is often discussed only rudimentarily and largely focuses on the choice between having limited general liability with an additional liability for corporate income taxes, or having neither. There is little analysis and no theory to rationalize or guide the development of the relevant law. This essay aims to fill this gap in tax law scholarship, asking first whether this gap is meaningful, and then beginning to fill that gap with possible explanations of the choice of entity and its policy implications. It generally portrays a picture of unorganized thinking about the effect of the choice of entity rules on the market, which therefore results in a lacking normative organizing principle. Nonetheless, the essay diagnoses some tax policy dilemmas from the foregoing perspective that may contribute to a more educated and comprehensive tax policy discourse. Thus, the essay adds support to scholarship calling for the repeal of the corporate income tax and for formula based international tax reform.

Suggested Citation:

Brauner, Yariv, Whither Choice of Entity? (August 31, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2318825 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2318825
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
E G See , A Steven , Dean
Attractive Complexity: Tax Deregulation, the Check-the-Box Election, and the Future of Tax Simplification
L Hofstra
Rev Posted: 2005
Roger F Pillow , Al
Simplified Entity Classification under the Final Check-the-Box Regulations, William & Mary 43 rd
Ann. Tax Conf , volume 197 Posted: 1997
Joseph E Scocca
The Check-the-Box Treasury Regulations: The Calm before the Storm, 29 Rutg
L. J , volume 201 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
RANK
285,369
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies