Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looks of the Books of Nigerian Firms: Fairness of Inflation-Adjusted Accounting

Journal of Financial Management And Analysis, Vol. 26 (1), 2013

Posted: 3 Sep 2013 Last revised: 6 Sep 2013

Prince Umor C. Agundu

Rivers State University of Science and Technology

Clinton Maxwell

Rivers State University

Date Written: August 27, 2013

Abstract

The limitations of historical cost accounting (HCA), particularly in times of rising prices, logically justify the attractions of inflation-adjusted accounting (IAA). This study examines the looks of the books of selected Nigerian firms, through the conceptual spectacles of HCA and IAA. The corporate financial values considered are gross profit, profit after tax, total assets, return on assets, return on equity, and net worth. Analysis of the firms’ financial statements after converting HCA-based financial data to the IAA equivalents indicates fairer looks in favour of the IAA system. Specifically, more competitive corporate fairness is evidenced by the high difference in HCA-based and IAA-based looks of gross profit, profit after tax, total assets, return on assets, return on equity, and net worth. Given that HCA and IAA systems are not mutually exclusive, compliance expediency professionally elicits the retention of HCA as traditional basis for meaningful adjustment and adoption of IAA in redefining and representing the looks of the books. The evolving fairer new looks of the books make for more efficient corporate investment decisions, strategic sustainability and global compatibility in the comity of forward moving firms.

Keywords: Financial reporting, Inflation accounting, Investment decision, Nigerian firms

JEL Classification: B41, C82, E31, G39, M41, 055

Suggested Citation:

Agundu, Prince Umor C. and Maxwell, Clinton, Looks of the Books of Nigerian Firms: Fairness of Inflation-Adjusted Accounting (August 27, 2013). Journal of Financial Management And Analysis, Vol. 26 (1), 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2319469
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
673
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies