Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inside or Out? The Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Program's Anti-Retaliation Protections for Internal Reporting

Temple Law Review, Volume 86, Summer 2014

41 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2013 Last revised: 28 Apr 2015

Jennifer M. Pacella

Indiana University, Kelley School of Business

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

On July 17, 2013, the very first circuit court to have addressed the anti-retaliation protections available to whistleblowers under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) suddenly strayed from the string of judicial victories that had been mounting for employee-whistleblowers. In Asadi v. G.E. Energy (USA) LLC, the Fifth Circuit deviated from the holdings of several federal district courts that have interpreted the scope of Dodd-Frank’s anti-retaliation provisions to broadly protect whistleblowers. Ever since Dodd-Frank’s enactment in 2010, courts have struggled to interpret whether the statute’s anti-retaliation protections are available for internal whistleblowers, or those who internally report violations of the securities laws to their employers, rather than directly to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Confusion as to the scope of Dodd-Frank’s protections has arisen due to an inconsistency in the language of the statute with respect to how the term, “whistleblower,” is defined, which, on its face, appears to exclude internal whistleblowers. The various district courts to have addressed this issue prior to Asadi have each sided with the whistleblower, and have granted Chevron deference to a 2011 SEC rule that reconciles the statute’s inconsistency by clarifying that Dodd-Frank’s anti-retaliation protections are available to internal and external whistleblowers alike. The decision in Asadi stands in stark contrast to these decisions and the SEC’s interpretation of the statute. This Article will explore the Fifth Circuit’s decision in Asadi, as well as the district court opinions that have interpreted this issue, and will argue that Asadi sets a dangerous precedent. Not only will the Fifth Circuit’s decision likely pave the way for how other circuit courts will address this issue in the future, it also compromises the importance of internal compliance programs, which offer employees an outlet for reporting possible securities violations internally so that companies can respond to problems in a timely manner. Weakened protection against retaliation for internal whistleblowers will likely have the effect of creating disincentives for employees to report internally. This Article will examine the importance of internal compliance programs as a preventative measure against major securities violations and will consider the effect that strong anti-retaliation protections has on the promotion of internal reporting. As Dodd-Frank is still in its relatively early stages, it is probable that the Fifth Circuit’s surprising decision in Asadi will either give rise to a circuit split or prompt the Supreme Court to address this important issue.

Keywords: whistleblowers, anti-retaliation, Dodd-Frank, Asadi, internal whistleblowers, internal reporting, internal compliance programs

Suggested Citation:

Pacella, Jennifer M., Inside or Out? The Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Program's Anti-Retaliation Protections for Internal Reporting (October 1, 2013). Temple Law Review, Volume 86, Summer 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320229 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2320229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Id
Oral Argument at , volume 24 , p. 55 - 80
Crossref
Id
at 626 n.9 (citing H.R. Res. 4173, 111th Cong. § 7203 (g)(1)(A) (as passed by House Posted: 2009-12-11
A) (as passed by Senate , volume 922 Posted: 2010-05-20
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,495
RANK
241,038
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies