Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Training and the Firm's Competitiveness: A Survey of Practitioners

Economics, Management, and Financial Markets, 9(2), 11-26.

22 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2013 Last revised: 30 May 2014

Vichet Sum

University of Maryland Eastern Shore - School of Business and Technology

Jack Chorlian

University of La Verne

Date Written: September 5, 2013

Abstract

Based theoretically on the resource-based view of the firm (RBV), this study surveys human resource professionals employed in small, medium, and large firms regarding the impact of training on various measures of the firm’s competitiveness. Based on the analysis of data obtained from the online survey of 111 human resource professionals, the majority of the participants rate the impact of training on various measures of their firms’ competitiveness moderate, high, or very high. The human resource professionals surveyed evaluate the impact of training on various measures of their firms’ competitiveness based on their communication with colleagues and management team.

Keywords: training, firm’s competitiveness, resource-based view of the firm

JEL Classification: M53

Suggested Citation:

Sum, Vichet and Chorlian, Jack, Training and the Firm's Competitiveness: A Survey of Practitioners (September 5, 2013). Economics, Management, and Financial Markets, 9(2), 11-26., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2320965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,533
RANK
597,018
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Human Resource Management & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies