Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EITC as Income (In)Stability?

15 Fla. Tax Rev. 583 (2014)

Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-23

66 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2013 Last revised: 26 Apr 2014

Kerry A. Ryan

Saint Louis University - School of Law

Date Written: August 25, 2013

Abstract

Congress enacted the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), inter alia, to entice poor single mothers to work (or work more) as a means of lifting themselves out of poverty. Its design as a wage subsidy that phases out at higher earnings levels is intended to accomplish this goal. A strong labor market is crucial to the success of work-based benefit programs, such as the EITC. The EITC can motivate female household heads to work (or work more), but they cannot act on that motivation if no jobs or additional working hours exist. This Article demonstrates that during economic downturns, the EITC wage subsidy contributes to, rather than prevents, poverty in single-mother families. Lost EITC benefits exacerbate recession-induced earnings losses, a phenomenon this Article refers to as income destabilization. In contrast, the EITC stabilizes the incomes of its wealthier beneficiaries as increased credit amounts offset underlying salary declines. While this pattern of income (de)stabilization is an unintended byproduct of the design of the EITC as a targeted wage subsidy, its negative impact on the economic welfare of female-headed households is problematic, given that these same families are the historically targeted program beneficiaries. This Article offers a narrowly tailored proposal that alters the structure of the EITC during recessionary periods in order to prevent EITC-induced income destabilization.

Keywords: EITC, Earned Income Tax Credit, Income Stabilization, Automatic Stabilization

JEL Classification: E62, H20, H53, I38, K34

Suggested Citation:

Ryan, Kerry A., EITC as Income (In)Stability? (August 25, 2013). 15 Fla. Tax Rev. 583 (2014), Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2320178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
See Rev
Proc. 2011-52
Crossref
Janet would be entitled to an EITC of $2
000*.4) in 2013. See Rev
Proc. 2011-52 , volume 30
Accord Dowd, Distinguishing Between Short-Term and Long-Term, supra note 27, at 820 (associating economic variables with the probability of claiming the EITC and finding that his results were "roughly consistent with Auerbach and Feenberg . . . that the EITC acts cyclically for the first quintile . . . and counter-cyclically for the second and third quintiles . . ."). 213. Given her squarely middle income salary level, Myrna may also be able to seek additional income stabilization from UI
See generally U.S. GOV'T ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE , volume 212 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,729
RANK
366,348
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Saint Louis University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies