Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Charitable Deduction Games: Are the Laws in Your Favor?

Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 5, 2013

Pepperdine University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014/28

32 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2014

Khrista McCarden

Tulane University - Law School

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

In today’s charitable world, many of the causes that have captured the attention of global philanthropists and organizations alike are international in nature. Gone are the days when US charities and the individuals and corporations who give to them are focused only on what is happening within the borders of the US in spite of economic hardship at home. In 2008, international funding represented almost 25% of overall giving in the US. As new international funders enter the global giving scene, it is clear that a focus on alleviating suffering abroad and world plights is on the conscience of American philanthropists.

Should not a philanthropic CEO of a major US corporation who has donated to the American Red Cross be able to make the same tax-efficient donations to its UK equivalent if he has had to relocate to London to continue to progress in the global game of world markets? Should we require instead that the UK charity set up a US charity or seek administratively burdensome registration in the US? Both of these options come at a price that could be used to provide disaster relief rather than to circumvent a perhaps well-meaning but misplaced set of rules. The barrier to the CEO’s giving is the result of a notion present not only in the US’s set of charitable giving rules but also in those of the UK and most European Union (“EU”) countries. I will refer to that notion as the “notion of territoriality.”

The notion of territoriality is the restriction of income tax deductibility to those donations made to charities formed within a given country’s borders. It is the opposite of allowing deductibility for donations made to charities formed in other countries (“foreign charities”). The notion of territoriality is endemic in the charitable laws of the US, the UK, and the EU, particularly the Netherlands. This article will address aspects of the notion of territoriality in all three sets of charitable laws. Part I of this article will define the notion of territoriality and examine the historical reasons for it; Part II of this article will discuss why the notion of territoriality is problematic; and Part III will explore the solution proposed by the European Union (“EU”) in a landmark case and how the US may adapt its laws in light of the change and historic notions discussed.

Keywords: tax, charitable deduction, notion of territoriality, income tax, Persche v Finanzant Ludenscheid, cross-border giving, European Union

Suggested Citation:

McCarden, Khrista, The Charitable Deduction Games: Are the Laws in Your Favor? (2013). Columbia Journal of Tax Law, Vol. 5, 2013, Pepperdine University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014/28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
C- Case
Centro di Musicologia Posted: 2006
9; see also Charles R. Ostertag, We're Starting to Share Well with Others: CrossBorder Giving Lessons from the Court of Justice of the European Union , volume 255 Posted: 2011
See Ostertag, supra note 123
Id
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,126
RANK
759,919
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Pepperdine University Rick J. Caruso School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies