Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surveillant and Counselor: A Reorientation in Compliance for Financial Firms

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 358

65 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2013 Last revised: 17 Oct 2013

James A. Fanto

Brooklyn Law School and Co-Director of the Center for the Study of Business Law & Regulation

Date Written: September 5, 2013

Abstract

This Article argues that the compliance officer should play a major role in the ongoing reform of financial firms because compliance is now well established and accepted and compliance officers are close to decision-making at all levels of a firm. The contention is that the role of compliance must be rethought and reoriented if it is to contribute fully to the reform. Compliance officers now ensure that the firms and their employees comply with the numerous laws and regulations governing them and their activities, primarily by producing detailed compliance procedures and policies and then revising, and monitoring compliance with, them. The policies and procedures direct the conduct of employees by surrounding them with a web of detailed instructions, procedures, supervisory review, reporting, oversight and investigation, where necessary. This approach, which is based on a well-established “external” model of direction, discipline and surveillance, is necessary to prevent self-interested and opportunistic conduct by financial firm employees. However, there is a risk that employees follow only the letter of compliance and even at times ignore it because they understand that the rules are different from, and necessarily secondary to, the actual securities business. Moreover, the external approach “crowds out” another model that is necessary to achieve the most effective compliance. Ideal financial firm compliance would promote “internal,” in addition to external, compliance. The goal of the internal approach is to have firm employees internalize the policies of the laws and regulations and the professional and ethical standards so that they come into the foreground when the employees are making business decisions. In psychological terms, the internal model of compliance would ensure that the policies and standards do not “fade” in employee decision-making. Thus, rather than being only a transcriber of rules and monitor of their enforcement, a compliance officer would be an educator about policies, standards and the appropriate firm and industry culture and an adviser and counselor concerning how they should inform daily employee decisions.

Keywords: compliance, securities law, broker-dealer

JEL Classification: K22, K42

Suggested Citation:

Fanto, James A., Surveillant and Counselor: A Reorientation in Compliance for Financial Firms (September 5, 2013). Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 358, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2321317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
See 1 POSER & FANTO, BROKER-DEALER LAW & REGULATION, supra note 49
Indeed, new section 15F(k) of the Exchange Act dealing with security-based swap dealer regulation mandates that such a dealer have a Chief Compliance Officer to implement the compliance function in the dealer
The See , Financial
CRISIS INQUIRY REPORT , issue 11
Crossref
for it was motivated by the SEC's failure to detect the Bernard Madoff scandal, which was revealed when his Ponzi scheme collapsed during the crisis. The SEC's enhancement of examinations was mandated by Congress in Dodd-Frank section 929U, which, among other things, added a new section 4(h) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78d(h)
The requirement to enhance examinations came indirectly out of the financial crisis , volume 3 Posted: 2009-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,521
RANK
470,088
3 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies