Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simple Techniques to Enhance the Governance of a Family Business

Serie Documentos de Trabajo - Documento Nro. 517, August 2013

40 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2013

Enrique Yacuzzi

University of CEMA

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

The use of simple governance techniques at a hypothetical family business (called ABC) will be beneficial. Good governance leads to a better relationship among stakeholders, increases the effectiveness of family institutions and board work and activates unknown potential at the firm through better principles and practices.

Tools proposed are: (1) A new and flexible family business governance indicator, developed for this paper; (2) Hoshin management; and (3) Effective meeting technology.

The three techniques interact in a systemic mode. The indicator allows measurement of how family business governance evolves through time in a company and facilitates comparison between different companies´ governance. Most importantly, it is a checklist and roadmap to better governance. Hoshin management is a generic planning method that can be used to build a governance improvement plan. Effective meetings facilitate planning and control and in this sense they are a tool for governance improvement.

This paper is mainly based on the following sources: IFC (2008), Yacuzzi (2005 b, 2007, 2008, 2012), Yacuzzi et al. (2011), Naiberger & Yacuzzi (2009). To an important extent, the paper´s organization is based on Yacuzzi (2012).

Suggested Citation:

Yacuzzi, Enrique, Simple Techniques to Enhance the Governance of a Family Business (August 1, 2013). Serie Documentos de Trabajo - Documento Nro. 517, August 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321847
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Rodolfo Apreda
The Semantics of Governance: The Common Thread Running Through Corporate, Public, and Global Governance
Documento de Trabajo No. 245 Pages: 30 Posted: 19 Sep 2007
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margaret M Blair
Ownership and Control: Rethinking Corporate Governance for the Twenty-First Century Posted: 2004
Elwood S Buffa , K Rakesh , Sarin
Modern Production/Operations Management, Eighth Edition Posted: 1987
Thomas Clarke , Ed
Theories of Corporate Governance: The philosophical foundations of corporate governance Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
730,413
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

How Corporate Governance and Globalization Can Run Afoul of the Law and Good Practices in Business: The Enron's Disgraceful Affair

By Rodolfo Apreda

The Semantics of Governance: The Common Thread Running Through Corporate, Public, and Global Governance

By Rodolfo Apreda

Corporate Rent-Seeking and the Managerial Soft-Budget Constraint

By Rodolfo Apreda

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies