Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Manufactured Homes

Minnesota Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-45

46 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2013

Ann M. Burkhart

University of Minnesota - Twin Cities - School of Law

Date Written: September 5, 2013

Abstract

Manufactured homes are the most important form of unsubsidized affordable housing in this country. They are home to more than twenty-two million people. The residents are predominantly lower-income, including a large proportion of older people. Yet the costs of purchasing and living in a manufactured home are unnecessarily high, because state law incorrectly categorizes the great majority of them as personal property, rather than as real property.

To correct this problem, the Uniform Law Commission recently promulgated the Uniform Manufactured Housing Act, which provides a process for converting manufactured homes from personal to real property. The act is designed to lower the costs of living in a manufactured home and to create legal parity between the owners of manufactured and site-built homes. A frequently expressed concern about converting the homes to real property is the tax impact for homeowners and for the government. However, no information is publicly available to determine the impact.

'Taxing Manufactured Homes' addresses that issue by analyzing the differences in taxes on a manufactured home that is classified as personal property with the taxes on the home if it is classified as real property. The article also compares the different tax treatments of manufactured and site-built homes. The results may surprise you, as they did me.

Keywords: taxation, manufactured homes

Suggested Citation:

Burkhart, Ann M., Taxing Manufactured Homes (September 5, 2013). Minnesota Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-45, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2321236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Tenn Ann
, p. 67 - 72 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Bd Tenn , Of , Equalization
TAX AGGREGATE REPORT , volume 69 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Tenn Title Fees Personal , Dep&apos;t Of , Revenue , Vehicle , Registration , Titling Guide , Fees
Posted: 2013
Tenn , Dep&apos;t Of , Revenue
Manufactured Homes Affixed to Real Property Posted: 2013-07-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,352
RANK
568,179
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Minnesota Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies