Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charitable Contributions for Disaster Relief: Rationalizing Tax Consequences and Victim Benefits

57 Catholic University Law Review 427, 2008

44 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2014 Last revised: 3 Apr 2019

Danshera Cords

Albany Law School

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

Charitable contributions surge in the wake of major disasters. The victims of each disaster regardless of size are victims. Through our tax code, Congress has inconsistently permitted relief to such victims. Following some disasters, such as 9/11, Congress has expanded they limits placed on the amount of aid organizations collecting donations can distributed to any individual victim. In the face of other disasters such as the Indonesian tsunami, Congress has provided additional tax incentives to encourage Americans to contribute to disaster relief. After other disasters, Congress has remained content with the existing tax incentives for charitable contributions. This disparate treatment of donors and victims undermines perceptions of fairness in the area of charitable giving and victim relief. Rather than continuing to employ an ad hoc approach to relief for victims of mass disasters, a consistent approach should be adopted that would apply when a certain threshold was reached, such an area being a presidentially declared disaster area.

Suggested Citation:

Cords, Danshera, Charitable Contributions for Disaster Relief: Rationalizing Tax Consequences and Victim Benefits (December 1, 2008). 57 Catholic University Law Review 427, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2321444
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
No. 109-135, 119 Stat. 2577; see also Tolan, supra note 25
Pub. L , p. 841 - 883 Posted: 2005
I R C
V 2005); see also Aprill & Schmalbeck, supra note 248, at 69 ("[W]hen one disaster is so great that it seems to call for heaving congressional artillery, other, smaller but more or less similar disasters get caught up in the wave , volume 692
John Rawls , A Theory
OF JUSTICE 11 (rev. ed. 1999). 273. Id. 274. See id. 275. Id , p. 132 - 165
See Id ; See , Alan Berube , The Bruce Katz , Brookings Instit , Katrina&apos;s Window
The bulk of the property damages and deaths in New Orleans occurred among families that were living in poverty
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,011
RANK
687,646
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies