Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
20 Questions (and 20 Answers!): On the New 3.8 Percent Tax

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, Nos. 7 & 8, Aug. 12 & 19, 2013

36 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2013

Richard L. Dees

McDermott, Will & Emery

Date Written: August 12, 2013

Abstract

Originally titled: 20 Questions (and Amazingly 20 Answers) on the Application of the New 3.8% Tax to Trusts and Family Businesses; (shortened for publication).

Twenty Questions asks and answers, to the extent answers exist, 20 questions about the application of the new 3.8% tax on net investment income under Code Section 1411 to trusts and family businesses. Because the income threshold for the application of the tax to trusts and estates is only $11,950, nearly every trustee will need to plan to minimize the tax. The tax is particularly harsh on trusts created for middle-income families with beneficiaries that otherwise would escape the tax, making it a substantial tax on "orphans and widows."

The author proposes two changes, one regulatory and one statutory, to mitigate this unfairness. The article will be of greatest utility for planning when S corporation stock or partnership interests are held in trust. K-1 income from an "active" business will escape the 3.8% tax, while income from a "passive" business under Code Section 469 will be subject to the 3.8% tax. If the owner material participates in the business operations using the standard under the passive loss rules adopted in 1986, the business is active. Unfortunately, little guidance exists on how to apply the passive loss rules to trust-owned businesses. Worse, in the last couple of years the IRS has attempted to apply a new anti-taxpayer test different than the one, which has existed for the preceding twenty-five years. The article contests the new test using both tax and fiduciary law. Although the new proposed regulations on the 3.8% tax are not the focus of the article, the author believes that the regulations raise more questions than they answer. The article also delves into obscure legislative history to explain why Congress exempted active business income from the net investment income tax. Despite implications to the contrary, the article explains that active business income can escape both 3.8% taxes: the net investment income tax and the Medicare self-employment tax. The author urges Congress to eliminate the current muddle on the application of the Medicare tax by providing tax partnerships and S corporations with the same self-employment tax treatment. Finally, the author explains how to fix the net investment income tax to actually provide the tax relief that Congress intended when it sought to reduce the higher tax costs imposed on the retained earnings of small businesses compared to those of large public corporations.

Suggested Citation:

Dees, Richard L., 20 Questions (and 20 Answers!): On the New 3.8 Percent Tax (August 12, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, Nos. 7 & 8, Aug. 12 & 19, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2322813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
394
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,708
RANK
171,584
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies