Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Dodd-Frank's Orderly Liquidation Authority for Financial Companies Violates Article III of the United States Constitution

Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 36, No. 4, p. 869, 2011

Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper No. 2322880

24 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2013

Brent J. Horton

Fordham University - Gabelli School of Business

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Title II of Dodd-Frank empowers the Treasury to appoint a receiver to a state-chartered non-bank financial company — a power traditionally vested in the judiciary — with little or no judicial involvement. This Article argues that granting such power to the Treasury violates Article III of the United States Constitution, which explicitly vests the judicial power in Article III courts. It begins with a discussion of Supreme Court precedent, specifically cases challenging legislative enactments that arguably vest judicial power in an executive agency or non-article III court, including Crowell v. Benson, Northern Pipeline v. Marathon and CFTC v. Schor.

This Article then turns to Article II of Dodd-Frank, and whether its grant of power to the Treasury is improper? In so doing, it examines the origins of the power to appoint a receiver. Looking back 200 years, this Article argues that the power to appoint a receiver was traditionally vested in courts of equity. Powers traceable to the courts of equity are now vested in Article III courts.

Finally, this Article shifts gears and examines whether — if the Treasury did appoint a receiver to a non-bank financial company — there is adequate Article III judicial review of the appointment. The conclusion is that judicial review is wanting: the scope of review is limited to confirming that the company is in danger of defaulting, and that the company is indeed financial in nature; and the standard of review is limited to determining whether that finding was arbitrary and capricious. Finally, the judicial review must be complete its review within 24 hours, an impossible task.

Keywords: Non-bank financial company, Dodd-Frank, orderly liquidation, bankruptcy, financial company, bank, receiver, judicial power, United States Constitution, Article III, separation of powers, systemic risk, Treasury, FDIC, standard of review, scope of review, Crowell v. Benson, Northern Pipeline, Schor

JEL Classification: K2, K 20, K22, K23, G2, G20, G28, G3, G30, G33, G38

Suggested Citation:

Horton, Brent J., How Dodd-Frank's Orderly Liquidation Authority for Financial Companies Violates Article III of the United States Constitution (2011). Journal of Corporation Law, Vol. 36, No. 4, p. 869, 2011, Fordham University Schools of Business Research Paper No. 2322880, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2322880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,668
RANK
644,872
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies