Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Template for Integrated Reporting

Journal of Intellectual Capital, 14 (2), 227-245, 2013

50 Pages Posted: 8 Sep 2013

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Purpose – This paper sets out to outline the concept of integrated reporting and to propose a template for integrated reporting in organisations.

Design/Methodology/Approach – The approach to the conceptual model is founded on concepts proposed on integrated reporting by the King Report on Governance for South Africa (King III), and the International Integrated Reporting Council in the U.K.

Findings – The integrated report should explain the story of reaching the organisation’s vision, underpinned by its values, enacted by management, monitored by governance, and using facets of resources relating to financial capital, intellectual capital, social capital, and environmental capital.

Practical Implications – The paper proposes an integrated reporting framework, and provides an example of a template to be used in organisations.

Originality/Value – To the best of our knowledge, this is the first academic paper that provides a coherent framework on integrated reporting, with a template.

Keywords: template, integrated, reporting

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, A Template for Integrated Reporting (2013). Journal of Intellectual Capital, 14 (2), 227-245, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2322292
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
159,412
3 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

An Empirical Investigation of Annual Reporting Trends of Intellectual Capital in Sri Lanka

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com) and James Guthrie

A Framework to Audit Intellectual Capital

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Intellectual Accounting Scorecard - Measuring and Reporting Intellectual Capital

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies