Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality Stores and the Status of Revenue Rulings

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, pp. 1089-1097, Sept. 9, 2013

9 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2013

Patrick J. Smith

Ivins, Phillips & Barker

Date Written: September 9, 2013

Abstract

The issue in Quality Stores is whether the supplemental unemployment compensation benefits that are excluded from taxable wages for FICA purposes are determined by a series of IRS revenue rulings, as the government contends, or by the statutory definition of supplemental unemployment compensation benefits, as the taxpayer contends. The government does not explain how revenue rulings can provide the definitive legal answer. Nor does it even attempt to defend the correctness of the positions expressed in the rulings. The taxpayer’s position is coherent and sensible, whereas the government presents no supportable alternative. As a result, the taxpayer’s position clearly must be preferred.

Keywords: tax, administrative law, Chevron, Mead, IRS, revenue rulings

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Patrick J., Quality Stores and the Status of Revenue Rulings (September 9, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, pp. 1089-1097, Sept. 9, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2323654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
As discussed in the latter article, it is clear that the arbitrary and capricious standard applies to all agency action, not just rulemaking. Smith, at 332; see also Citizens to Preserve Overton Park Inc. v. Volpe, 401 , volume 402 , p. 413 - 414 Posted: 1971
Petition for Cert., supra note 1
Id
Crossref
Id
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
499,164
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies