Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Structure of the Public Accounting Industry – Why Existing Market Models Fail

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 10(2), 43-67.

28 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2014 Last revised: 22 Apr 2015

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

The structure of the public accounting industry has been the subject of debate for decades. Both empirical and theoretical research has reached contradictory results and conflicting conclusions regarding which model of industrial organization describes the structure of the public accounting industry. Some research has concluded the industry is competitive and other research found it is oligopolistic. Obviously it cannot be both. This paper compares the structure of the public accounting industry with the economic models of industrial organization and discusses the reasons why current models fail to describe the structure of the industry. Previous research has failed to consider that the market for audit services was created by the government which was then subsequently subjected to the simultaneous regulation of both the supply and demand for audit services. The simultaneous regulation of both supply and demand distorts the market thereby rendering current models incapable describing the structure of the public accounting industry.

Keywords: public accounting industry, market structure, oligopololy, monopoly, competition

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, K33, L00, L16

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The Structure of the Public Accounting Industry – Why Existing Market Models Fail (January 1, 2015). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, 10(2), 43-67., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326297
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R D Banker , H Chang , R Cunningham
The public accounting industry production function
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , p. 255 - 281 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Baye
Managerial Economics & business strategy Posted: 2010
M S Beasley , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , T L Neal
An analysis of alleged auditor deficiencies in SEC fraud investigations: 1998-2010 Posted: 2013
J Bierstaker , R Houston , A Wright
The impact of competition on audit planning, Review, and Performance
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 25 , p. 1 - 58 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,232
RANK
225,151
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies