Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loving and Legitimacy: IRS Regulation of Tax Return Preparation

59 Villanova Law Review 515

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 647

48 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2013 Last revised: 18 Feb 2015

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: September 16, 2013

Abstract

The validity of regulations promulgated by the Department of Treasury is a principal battleground in contemporary federal taxation. So far, the clash has had two phases: establishment and implementation. Phase one entailed the destruction of the citadel of tax insularity, the bastion within which tax specialists thought to keep themselves safe from having to learn and apply general administrative law. In cases such as Swallows, Mannella, Lantz, Mayo, and the welter of cases culminating in Home Concrete, the old guard was defeated. It is now firmly established that tax, no less than other regulatory areas, is subject to the rules of administrative law. That proposition having been settled, we are now in phase two: implementation, the application of specific administrative law rules in particular tax contexts.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Loving and Legitimacy: IRS Regulation of Tax Return Preparation (September 16, 2013). 59 Villanova Law Review 515, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 647, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
242
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,541
RANK
288,883
1 Citations
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies