Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resisting Hybridisation between Modes of Clinical Risk Management: Contradiction, Contest, and the Production of Intractable Conflict

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 38, No. 1, pp. 30-49, 2013

58 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2013

Michael Fischer

University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Ewan Ferlie

King’s College London

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

This article explores and explains escalating contradictions between two modes of clinical risk management which resisted hybridisation. Drawing on a Foucauldian perspective, these two modes – ethics-orientated and rules-based – are firstly characterised in an original heuristic we develop to analyse clinical risk management systems. Some recent sociologically orientated accounting literature is introduced, exploring interactions between accountability and risk management regimes in corporate and organizational settings; much of this literature suggests these systems are complementary or may readily form hybrids. This theoretical literature is then moved into the related domain of clinical risk management systems, which has been under-explored from this analytic perspective. We note the rise of rules-based clinical risk management in UK mental health services as a distinct logic from ethics-orientated clinical self-regulation. Longitudinal case study data is presented, showing contradiction and escalating contest between ethics-orientated and rules-based systems in a high-commitment mental health setting, triggering a crisis and organizational closure. We explore theoretically why perverse contradictions emerged, rather than complementarity and hybridisation suggested by existing literature. Interactions between local conditions of strong ideological loading, high emotional and personal involvement, and rising rules-based risk management are seen as producing this contest and its dynamics of escalating and intractable conflict. The article contributes to the general literature on interactions between different risk management regimes, and reveals specific aspects arising in clinically based forms of risk management. It concludes by considering some strengths and weaknesses of this Foucauldian framing.

Keywords: clinical risk management, conflict, ethics, Foucault, hybrids, mental health, organizational change, paradigm incommensurability, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Michael and Ferlie, Ewan, Resisting Hybridisation between Modes of Clinical Risk Management: Contradiction, Contest, and the Production of Intractable Conflict (January 1, 2013). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 38, No. 1, pp. 30-49, 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326061
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
3 Citations
Yves Gendron , Anna Samsonova-Taddei , Henri Guénin
Making Sense of Risk Management as a (Dis)comfort-Inducing Practice
Gendron, Y., Samsonova-Taddei, A, and Guénin, H., Making sense of risk management as a (dis)comfort-inducing practice. Behavioral Research in Accounting, (Forthcoming)., · 50 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 196
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Teemu Malmi , David Derichs , Michelle Carr
Healthcare Executive’S Resistance to Clinician Developed Cost and Productivity Indicators: Evidence from an Interventionist Study
MAR24-57 · 28 Pages · Posted: 29 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 65
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dane Pflueger , Margit Malmmose
(In)completing accounting: Financial managers and quality reforms in the Danish health system
41 Pages · Posted: 9 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 32
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,704
RANK
627,303
3 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Organizational Turbulence, Trouble and Trauma: Theorizing the Collapse of a Mental Health Setting

By Michael Fischer

The Creation and Survival of an Academic Health Science Organization: Counter-Colonization Through a New Organizational Form?

By Michael Fischer, Ewan Ferlie, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies