Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring and Recognizing the Value of Purchased Goodwill: A Note on Market Value Measurement Method

Academy of Taiwan Business Management Review, 8 (3), 57-65, 2012

12 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2013

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Through a review of literature and with conceptual underpinnings, this paper demonstrates that relying on the market value measurement method to ascertain value of purchased goodwill does not contribute to more accurate value of the financial worth of the firm. It argues that the use of market value for the measurement of purchased goodwill for recognition in financial statements is a mere artifact and a response to the contemporary paradigm rather than a measure of the accurate financial worth of purchased goodwill. It demonstrates the need to seek a measurement method that does not impose a transaction as a necessary precondition for ascertaining the financial value of goodwill.

Keywords: purchased, measuring, goodwill, recognizing, note, market, measurement, method, value

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Measuring and Recognizing the Value of Purchased Goodwill: A Note on Market Value Measurement Method (2012). Academy of Taiwan Business Management Review, 8 (3), 57-65, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326085
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Aboody , R Kasznik , Williams , M
Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 286 Posted: 2000
Crossref
A Amir , T S Harris , E K Venuti
A Comparison of Value-Relevance of US Versus Non-US GAAP Accounting Measures Using Form 20-F Reconciliations
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 31 , p. 230 - 264 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Archer
On Economic Reality, Representational Faithfulness and the True and Fair Override
Accounting and Business Research , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 2003
B C Ayers , C E Lefanowicz , J R Robinson
Do Firms Purchase the Pooling Method?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 32 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,200
RANK
409,562
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies