Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Law Influences on the Form and Substance of Equity Compensation in the United States

UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2326732

12 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2013

Mark P. Gergen

University of California, Berkeley - School of Law

Date Written: September 16, 2013

Abstract

This brief essay was written for a forthcoming book by Prof. Zenich Shisido, Enterprise Law: Contracts, Markets, and Laws in the US and Japan (Edward Elger). It summarizes recent scholarship on the influence of tax law on equity compensation in the United States.

The essay finds there is little evidence or reason to believe that tax law significantly influences the substance of equity compensation, meaning the mix between equity and cash compensation and the risk and term structure of equity compensation. For publicly traded firms, tax law generally and roughly is neutral in the choice between equity and cash compensation once costs and benefits to both the firm and the recipient are considered. Tax law probably also has not had much impact on the form of equity compensation in publicly traded firms. Tax considerations do seem to have had an impact on the form of equity compensation in the venture capital (“VC”) and private equity industries both at the start-up company level and at the fund level. There is an arguable tax bias against giving founders equity compensation in the form of founders’ common in start-ups in the VC industry. And there is arguable tax bias in favor of giving fund managers equity compensation in the form of a profits interest in the private equity industry, which includes the VC industry.

But there are reasons to be skeptical about whether these tax biases have had much of an impact on the substance of equity compensation. Start-ups are so poorly engineered from a tax perspective that it is unlikely that tax considerations significantly influence the economic deal struck between founders and investors. If the tax cost of founders’ common was perceived as an impediment to using equity compensation, then the parties would redesign the deals to eliminate those costs. On the other hand, funds are so exquisitely well engineered from a tax perspective that that we can expect engineers to design around any tax rules that are more than a minor irritant. The co-existence of these poorly and exquisitely designed structures in the same industry is curious.

Keywords: Tax, Equity Compensation, Venture Capital, Private Equity, Carried Interests

Suggested Citation:

Gergen, Mark P., Tax Law Influences on the Form and Substance of Equity Compensation in the United States (September 16, 2013). UC Berkeley Public Law Research Paper No. 2326732, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2326732 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2326732
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
418,383
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Berkeley School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies