Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dysfunctional Auditor Behavior: The Effects of Tone at the Top and Supervisors’ Relationships

Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2013

Wayne Tervo

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Marshall K. Pitman

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This study examines the influence of firm management’s ethical “tone at the top” (tone) and the working relationship of an auditor with his/her supervisor (senior) on the auditor’s propensity to engage in an unethical, dysfunctional auditor behavior (DAB). Findings indicate that environmental factors influence the staff auditor’s decision of whether or not to follow a course of action suggested by the supervisor that is contrary to both the audit program and generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS). Specifically, auditors are influenced by the tone that the partner sets for the firm and by the working relationship that the staff auditor has with the supervising senior auditor. The results of this research have ramifications for the auditing profession, as they identify specific factors outside of auditing standards and beyond an auditor’s moral reasoning capabilities that can influence the acceptance of unethical, dysfunctional behavior.

Keywords: ethics, tone at the top, dysfunctional auditor behavior, DAB

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Tervo, Wayne and Smith, Murphy and Pitman, Marshall K., Dysfunctional Auditor Behavior: The Effects of Tone at the Top and Supervisors’ Relationships (2013). Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2327832
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
C Alderman , J Deitrick
Auditors' Perceptions of Time Budget Pressures and Premature Sign-Offs: A Replication and Extension
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 54 - 68 Posted: 1982
D Arnold , L Ponemon
Internal Auditors' Perceptions of Whistle-Blowing and the Influence of Moral Reasoning: An Experiment
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1991
F Baker , H Rachlin
Probability of Reciprocation in Repeated Prisoner's Dilemma Games
Journal of Behavioral Decision Making , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 67 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Bay , R Greenberg
The Relationship of the DIT and Behavior: A Replication
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 367 - 380 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Mark W. Nelson , Chad A. Proell , Amy Randel
Team-Oriented Leadership and Auditors’ Willingness to Raise Audit Issues
Accounting Review, doi 10.2308/accr-51399, Forthcoming · 59 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2014 · Last revised: 17 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 225
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Engy Abdelhak , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer , Craig Mclaughlin , Aws Alhares
Auditors’ Ethical Reasoning in Developing Countries: The Case of Egypt
Forthcoming in Abdelhak, E., Elamer, A., & AlHares, A. (2019) ‘Auditors’ ethical reasoning in developing countries: The case of Egypt, International Journal of Ethics and Systems. (Accepted 7th June 2019). , · 52 Pages · Posted: 17 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 127
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stefan Linnhoff , Katherine Taken Smith , Murphy Smith
An Examination of Longitudinal Study Typologies for Business Research
International Journal of Business and Globalisation, 24(2), 212-239 (2018) · 44 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 194
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
664
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,798
RANK
90,608
3 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies