Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of Family Resemblance: 'Series of Transactions' After Copthorne

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 62, No. 1, 2014

42 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2013 Last revised: 7 Mar 2014

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Julia Lockhart

Independent

Date Written: March 7, 2014

Abstract

The concept of a series of transactions was a key issue in the Supreme Court of Canada’s decision in Copthorne Holdings Ltd. v. Canada. In light of that decision, this article reviews previous commentary on the topic and suggests a new approach based on the concept of family resemblance. Family resemblance recognizes that there are no core aspects that are the same in every series captured by a provision of the Income Tax Act. Rather, a series should be defined in relation to the purpose of the anti-avoidance provision in issue and the stylized set of transactions that Parliament was attempting to capture. Where there is a sufficient family resemblance between the stylized series and the transactions carried out, a series should be found. This concept is applied to both specific anti-avoidance rules and the general anti-avoidance rule. The article suggests how the Act could be clarified through amendments inspired by the concept of family resemblance.

Keywords: Series of transactions, statutory interpretation, GAAR, butterfly transactions, purpose

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Lockhart, Julia, The Importance of Family Resemblance: 'Series of Transactions' After Copthorne (March 7, 2014). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 62, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2328699 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2328699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
would result directly or indirectly in an abuse having regard to those provisions, other than this section
Ibid
Crossref
HM revenue & Customs, HMRC's GAAR Guidance , volume 9 Posted: 2013-04
Crossref
Ibid
, volume 10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,639
RANK
618,773
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies