Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US Corporate Tax Reform: Why is a Worldwide Tax System Absent from the Debate?

Tax Notes International, Vol. 71, No. 12, 2013

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2329687

Posted: 24 Sep 2013 Last revised: 12 Apr 2023

Roy Clemons

New Mexico State University

Michael Kinney

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 16, 2013

Abstract

Reform of the U.S. international tax policy is under consideration in Congress. Policymakers are concerned with both reducing tax disincentives to repatriate earnings to the U.S. and with constraining business tactics to move U.S. income offshore. We argue that to achieve significant tax reform, policymakers should generate reform alternatives based on ideas that are shared across partisan and ideological divides. The common ground among political perspectives includes broadening the tax base and lowering tax rates, simplifying the tax code, and assuring U.S. corporations pay their fair share while remaining competitive in the global economy. Most proposals are centered on changing the current tax system into a territorial system rather than preserving some form of worldwide system. Informed by recent research, we present arguments favoring a burden-neutral worldwide tax system as the basis for U.S. international income tax reform.

Keywords: international, worldwide, territorial, tax reform, tax policy, corporate

Suggested Citation:

Clemons, Roy and Kinney, Michael R., US Corporate Tax Reform: Why is a Worldwide Tax System Absent from the Debate? (September 16, 2013). Tax Notes International, Vol. 71, No. 12, 2013, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2329687, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2329687
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,899
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies