Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Comparability Analysis Developed by the European Court of Justice in the Cases Concerning Direct Taxes

Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2330950

33 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2013

Carlo Garbarino

Bocconi University - Department of Law

Date Written: September 25, 2013

Abstract

The paper explores the criteria used by the ECJ in different cross-border activities and transactions to determine whether two situations are comparable either from the perspective of the destination/host country (inbound comparables) or from the perspective of the origin/home country (outbound comparables). Inbound comparables can be said to be loosely based on a "capital import neutrality" (CIN) concept, while outbound comparables can be said to be loosely based on a "capital export neutrality" (CEN) concept, while in other situations the Court has established more extended types of comparables that are defined here as "dual comparables" (the reinforced and the bilateral comparables). There is no evidence the Court is explicitly using those economic standards to adjudicate tax cases, what the Court does is to develop an equal protection standard infused with efficiency considerations in so far as restrictions affect the proper functioning of the EU market.

Keywords: tax law, international tax, comparative tax law, european court of justice, ECJ, taxation, direct tax, income tax, corporate tax

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, The Comparability Analysis Developed by the European Court of Justice in the Cases Concerning Direct Taxes (September 25, 2013). Bocconi Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2330950, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2330950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
Commission V De Lasteyrie , Sweden
Crossref
See: Daily Mail and Cartesio, and National Grid Indus, supra note 34
¶ ¶ 3-41. The cases of the Court on corporate migration spurred a lively debate that touched upon the very issue of transfer of losses across jurisdictions. In that respect see: Wolfgang Schon, Tax Issues and Constraints on Reorganizations and Reincorporations in the European Union
The comparable has been established in National Grid Indus, supra note , volume 34 Posted: 2004
Ana Paula Dourado &amp; Pasquale Pistone
Looking Beyond Cartesio: Reconciliatory Interpretation as a Tool to Remove Tax Obstacles on the Exercise of the Primary Right of Establishment by Companies and Other Legal Entities , p. 37 - 342 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
221,315
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bocconi University Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies