Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Constitutionality of the Inevitable Regulations of All Tax Return Preparers

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 14(3) 735-766 (2013)

32 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2013

Ariel Alvarez

Montclair State University

Date Written: September 24, 2013

Abstract

Complying with the labyrinthine federal tax code is a complicated business. Each year millions of Americans must present to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) a sincere and accurate statement of their income, applicable deductions and exemptions, and the total tax owed or refund claimed. Failure to do so potentially results in stringent and expensive penalties. Thus, it is reasonable to expect that the professionals or other individuals who assist these millions of Americans in preparing their tax returns be knowledgeable, careful and honest. However, studies show that many tax return preparers are operating outside an acceptable standard of professional responsibility. Although the IRS maintains strict regulation of certain kinds of tax preparers via the famous “Circular 230,” until recently a large industry of unregistered tax preparers has operated largely unrestricted. This paper examines the contextual evolution of the IRS’s regulation of unregistered tax preparers, including its historical exercise of judicial and statutory remedies, the extension in 2011 of Circular 230’s application to all tax return preparers and the objections to regulation raised by some unregistered tax preparers and their supporters. In light of the strong arguments in favor of regulation, this paper concludes that the IRS’s ultimate regulation of all tax return preparers is basically inevitable.

Keywords: Tax Law, Tax Policy, IRS, Constitutionality of IRS Regulations, Tax Preparers

JEL Classification: H2, H24, J2, J23, J3, J44, K2, K34, L84, M4

Suggested Citation:

Alvarez, Ariel, The Constitutionality of the Inevitable Regulations of All Tax Return Preparers (September 24, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 14(3) 735-766 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Action to enjoin tax return preparers Posted: 2013
Actions to enjoin specified conduct related to tax shelters and reportable transactions Posted: 2013
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. § Posted: 2013
Crossref
Change in the taxpayer-tax preparer relationship: The effects of Circular 230
Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 15 - 25 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,916
RANK
425,064
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies