Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liability of Past Members during Winding Up of a Company

13 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2013 Last revised: 27 Sep 2013

Kavita Pradhan

Independent

Date Written: September 5, 2013

Abstract

Insolvency is one of the grounds for winding up of a company. There are some general provisions which apply to both compulsory and voluntary winding up of a company. One such provisions is relating to the contributories. Contributories are person who are liable to contribute to the assets of a company in the event of its being wound up. The concept of contributory arises only at the time of winding up of a company. A contributory refers to a shareholder or member of a company. Contributories are again divided into two types- present members placed under ‘List A’ contributories and past members placed under ‘List B’ contributories. It is important to know when and to what extent the past members are liable to contribute during winding up of a company. Since the past members are also a contributory, the general provisions relating to contributories are also applicable to them. Therefore, this paper addresses the provisions relating to the liability of contributories generally and past members particularly under the Companies Act, 1956, Companies Bill, 2012 and the Insolvency Act, 1986. Again, this paper makes an attempt to explain the provisions with the help of case-laws.

Keywords: contributories, insolvency, members

Suggested Citation:

Pradhan, Kavita, Liability of Past Members during Winding Up of a Company (September 5, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330295 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2330295
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
&apos; Brett , Case
)(d) of the Insolvency Act
S , volume 74 , issue 2 Posted: 1986
Section 80 of the Insolvency Act Posted: 1986
Section , volume 74 , issue 3
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
15,020
RANK
14,864
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies