Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Occupational Licensure: From Barbers to Accountants and Physicians, Influences on Professional Practice in the United States

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 13(4) 513-561 (2012)

49 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2013

Ariel Alvarez, Ph.D., Esq.

Montclair State University

Date Written: September 25, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines mandatory occupational licensure in several professions from barbers, cosmetologists, radiologic technicians, CPAs, mid-level healthcare providers, and physicians. Mandatory licensure is cited as a mechanism for serving the public interest by assuring professionals possess the requisite knowledge, skill, and competence to provide safe high quality services. Mandatory licensure also creates barriers to entry in the profession, decreases market supply, increases wages, restricts mobility, and limits consumer choice and accessibility to services. Alternative mechanisms for assuring professional competency include the use of brand names, endorsements by professional organizations, and third-party certification. Brand names play an important role in consumer choice. Those entities that have built a strong brand name associated with high quality and trustworthiness have strong incentives to maintain high levels of knowledge, skill, and competence without regulatory oversight. Endorsements by reputable non-regulatory associations such as the AMA or the AICPA which require members to demonstrated defines standards of professional practice can serve as an important source of information about practitioner competence and aid in the consumer decision-making process. Non-governmental third party entities such as Consumer Reports or U.S. News and World Reports are highly respected and utilized certifiers of competency and quality. In the absence of mandatory licensure, other credible third-party certifying institutions would rise up and provide unbiased assessments of the services provided by professionals. There are effective alternatives to mandatory licensing that service the public interest with fewer barriers to occupational practice and greater choice and less cost to the consumer.

Keywords: Mandatory Licensure, Occupational Licensure, Barriers to Entry, Accounting

JEL Classification: D0, D23, D45, D6, D71, D72, D73, D82, H2, I21, I31, J08, J2, J3, J44, J62, K31, L84, M4, M53

Suggested Citation:

Alvarez, Ariel, Occupational Licensure: From Barbers to Accountants and Physicians, Influences on Professional Practice in the United States (September 25, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 13(4) 513-561 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2330710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
A F Adams , R Ekelund , J Jackson
Occupation licensing in a "competitive" labor market: The case of cosmetology
Journal of Labor Research , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 261 - 278 Posted: 2002
Crossref
P Aghimien , D Fred
CPA licensing requirements
Academy of Accounting & Financial Studies Journal , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2010
AICPA Launches Peer Review Facilitated State Board Access Pilot Program
AICPA Posted: 2008
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting Education: Charting the Course through a Perilous Future Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,575
RANK
390,908
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies