Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Comply-or-Explain Principle: Stakeholders’ Views on How to Improve the 'Explain' Approach

41 Pages Posted: 28 Sep 2013 Last revised: 24 Nov 2013

Petra Inwinkl

Jönköping International Business School

Marie Wallman

Jonkoping University - Jonkoping International Business School (JIBS)

Sofia Josefsson

Jonkoping University - Jonkoping International Business School (JIBS)

Date Written: November 23, 2013

Abstract

The comply-or-explain principle is a central element in the EU corporate governance framework which was put in place by Directive 2006/46/EC. Whilst avoiding an inflexible “one size fits all” approach, the principle has lately been questioned because of the quality of corporate governance reports it has allowed European companies to produce; these companies can either comply with code provisions, or may explain why they do not comply, i.e., why they deviate from a provision of the code. Seidl et al. (2012), in analysing 257 listed companies that had produced some 715 records of deviations, and their respective “explanations”, found that, in contrast to the original idea of comply-or-explain, which emphasised the possibility of justifying deviations with situation-specific reasons, a significant number of the deviations analysed were either not justified at all (that is, they were simply disclosed) or were justified on the basis of objections of principle (e.g., that the code provisions were inappropriate because they failed to embody best practice). An increasing number of studies provide evidence that corporate governance statements disclosed on European stock markets lack quality, mainly in terms of the explanations they include when the companies do not comply with code provisions. In addressing this issue, the European Commission launched a wide-ranging consultation seeking views on how the “explain” approach could be improved. From this consultation we analysed 244 stakeholders’ responses, generating an empirically derived taxonomy of responses. First, we examine these by providing a descriptive account of the different ways in which stakeholders agree that the “explain” option should be used, and what kind of alternative solutions companies should disclose. Second, we discuss the possible implications for code regimes and for management control.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Corporate governance codes, Stakeholder, Comply-or-explain, Explain approach, EU level, Legitimacy

JEL Classification: M19, M14

Suggested Citation:

Inwinkl, Petra and Wallman, Marie and Josefsson, Sofia, The Comply-or-Explain Principle: Stakeholders’ Views on How to Improve the 'Explain' Approach (November 23, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2331285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2331285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Akkermans , H Van Ees , N Hermes , R Hooghiemstra , G Van Der Laan , T Postma , A Van Witteloostuijn
Corporate Governance in the Netherlands: an overview of the application of the Tabaksblat Code
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 15 , issue 6 , p. 1106 - 1118 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Arcot , V Bruno , A Faure-Grimaud
Corporate governance in the UK: Is the comply or explain approach working?
International Review of Law and Economics , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 201 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E Babbie
The practice of social research Posted: 2003
Cadbury Report
Report of the committee on the financial aspects of corporate governance Posted: 1992-09
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
436
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,243
RANK
152,784
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Codes of Good Governance

By Ruth V. Aguilera and Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra

Institutional and Strategic Choice Perspectives on Board Involvement in the Strategic Decision Process

By William Q. Judge and Carl P. (dean) Zeithaml

Codes of Good Governance Worldwide: What is the Trigger?

By Alvaro Cuervo-cazurra and Ruth V. Aguilera

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies