Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Research on Tax Incentives for Charitable Donations of Non-Monetary Assets by Chinese Corporations

Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 3, No. 1, p. 21, February 2013

16 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2013

Zhaohui Long

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU)

Xiaoling Hu

Independent

Date Written: February 26, 2013

Abstract

Corporate donations form a substantial part of social charitable donations in China. Corporate non-monetary asset donations are important in this regard as they bring goods and materials to areas where they are desperately needed. However, the current scope and scale of corporate donations are narrow due to a lack of tax incentives. This paper will explain the incentive effects of the current tax regime by analyzing how asset donations are treated by Chinese taxation laws, from the perspective of macroeconomic policies and market demands. It particularly focuses on the relatively heavy tax burden and limited scope for tax exemptions on corporate asset donations in China. In light of this, we propose some pragmatic suggestions on incentivizing policies that are more suitable for China’s current situation, such as increasing the exemptions before tax and allowing exemptions to roll over to future years, developing incentive policies on indirect and property taxes, and establishing the mechanism for third-party price evaluation and equity donation regulation, etc.

Keywords: Corporations, Charitable donations, Accounting and taxation, Tax incentives

JEL Classification: D3, D6, H2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Long, Zhaohui and Hu, Xiaoling, Research on Tax Incentives for Charitable Donations of Non-Monetary Assets by Chinese Corporations (February 26, 2013). Journal of Chinese Tax and Policy, Vol. 3, No. 1, p. 21, February 2013 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2332592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Total accounting profits , p. 500 - 97
Moustafa El Tamamy
Investigating the Explanatory Power of Economic Profits (Eva®) versus Accounting Profits on Stock Returns as a Measure of Shareholders Wealth Creation. An Empirical Study of the FTSE 100.
Pages: 91 Posted: 10 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Deductible income before tax: 420×12%=50.4
R A Schwartz
Corporate Philanthropic Contributions' (1968) 23(3) The Journal of Finance 479
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
422,861
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies