Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US International Taxation in Comparison with Other Regulatory Regimes

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 33, No. 1

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 13-20

40 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2013 Last revised: 2 Jul 2014

Alexander Wu

UCLA School of Law

Date Written: September 23, 2013

Abstract

This article proposes that U.S. international tax policy analysis must take into account non-tax regulation, which is generally disregarded in international tax policy analysis. Structural features of non-tax regulatory regimes will be shown to have significant implications for fundamental normative claims of the international tax policy literature.

The article begins with the insight that taxation and regulation are in some sense substitutes. In light of the substitutability of taxation and regulation, the article asks why U.S. international taxation diverges from U.S. international regulation, specifically why the United States imposes tax on worldwide income while non-tax regulations typically have limited extra-territorial effect. The article proposes that the policies underlying U.S. international income taxation provide a useful framework with which to analyze U.S. international regulatory regimes. Using such a framework, the article finds that the divergence between taxation and regulation in the international context can be explained by differences in the distribution of the benefits of taxation and regulation.

The article then demonstrates, by analyzing U.S. international regulatory regimes within the framework of international tax policy, how non-tax regulatory regimes have significant implications for international tax policy. Given the substitutability of, and the divergence between, taxation and non-tax regulatory regimes, the normative justification for imposing tax on worldwide income is weakened when the neutrality norms (such as capital export neutrality and capital import neutrality) that are commonly used to evaluate international taxation are used to evaluate regulation. Although worldwide taxation appears advisable when regulatory costs are not considered (because worldwide taxation supports capital export neutrality when non-tax factors are omitted from the analysis), a territorial system of taxation may instead be supported depending on the relative rates of regulatory costs. Furthermore, a new justification for the limitations on the foreign tax credit, that an unlimited foreign tax credit may incentivize the export of capital rather than support capital export neutrality (which an unlimited foreign tax credit is claimed to do), becomes apparent when regulation is taken into account. The analytical results are consistent with the general theory of the second best of welfare economics.

Keywords: taxation, international taxation, taxation of capital income, capital export neutrality, regulation, international law, exterritorial application of law, law and economics, general theory of the second best

JEL Classification: K34, K33, K20, K00, H20, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Alexander, US International Taxation in Comparison with Other Regulatory Regimes (September 23, 2013). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 33, No. 1, UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 13-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
E G See , Staff , Of , Comm , On , Taxation
DESCRIPTION AND ANALYSIS OF PRESENT-LAW RULES RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL TAXATION 40-99 (Comm. Print 1999) (discussing U.S. international tax policy without considering other U
S. regulatory regimes
Inst Gary Clyde Hufbauer , U S Int&apos;l Econ , Taxation , Of
briefly mentioning but not discussing nontax regulations, and noting that tax policy analysts have preferred to ignore nontax regulations: "[I]t is worth pointing out that the CEN school assesses tax policy in isolation from a variety of other policies that might distort the location of investment. For example, protective tariffs, buy-national public procurement, and capital grants to firms can all tilt plant location decisions. According to the CEN school Posted: 1992
Reuven S Avi-Yonah
Slicing the Shadow: A Proposal for Updating U.S. International Taxation, 58 TAX NOTES 1511 Posted: 1992-03-15
J. Clifton Fleming , Robert Joseph Peroni , Stephen E. Shay
Incorporating a Minimum Tax in a Territorial System
157 Tax Notes 73 (2017), U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper, BYU Law Research Paper No. 18-01 Pages: 15 Posted: 4 Oct 2017 Last revised: 12 Feb 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,535
RANK
312,985
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies