Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deductions on a Higher Plane: Medical Marijuana Business Expenses

Lexis Federal Tax Journal Quarterly, September 2013

Wake Forest Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 2333969

15 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2013

Joel S. Newman

Wake Forest University - School of Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

A discussion of the income tax deductibility of business expenses in the marijuana industry. Emphasis is placed upon those states in which medical marijuana, and now recreational marijuana, is legal under state law, even though it is still illegal under federal law. Current litigation, including the appeal of Olive v. Commissioner to the Ninth Circuit, is addressed.

Internal Revenue Code Section 280E, which denies business deductions other than costs of goods sold for those who traffic in controlled substances, should be repealed. Moreover, marijuana, in light of its documented medical use, should be removed from the schedule of controlled substances. Finally, until these steps are taken, the IRS and the Department of Justice should leave the medical and recreational marijuana industry alone.

Keywords: Taxation, Medical Marijuana, IRC 280E

Suggested Citation:

Newman, Joel S., Deductions on a Higher Plane: Medical Marijuana Business Expenses (2013). Lexis Federal Tax Journal Quarterly, September 2013, Wake Forest Univ. Legal Studies Paper No. 2333969, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
Carrie F Irc § 280e; See , Keller
The Implications of I.R.C. § 280E in Denying Ordinary and Necessary Business Deductions to Drug Traffickers Posted: 2003
; Rutherford , Messere Peace
Tax Deductions and Criminal Activities: The Effects of Recent Tax Legislation
Taxation of Drug Traffickers' Income: What the Drug Trafficker Profiteth, the IRS Taketh Away , volume 701 Posted: 1989
The Tax Court is convinced that the Senate was thinking of Edmondson Posted: 1982
Mr. La Rosa was busted for drug dealing, and required to pay tax on his unreported income. He argued that, if he was to pay tax on his drug-related income, he should be allowed drug-related deductions, including the expense of a robbery which occurred during a drug deal. The Federal Court of Australia allowed the deductions. The Australian Parliament was horrified, and enacted Section 26-54 of the Income Tax Assessment Act of 1997, which disallows deductions for expenditures relating to illegal activities. See Gupta
Californians Helping to Alleviate Medical Problems, Inc v Comm'r , volume 125 , p. 128 - 142 Posted: 2003-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,793
RANK
293,720
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wake Forest University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies