Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
REMIC Tax Enforcement as Financial-Market Regulator

University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Vol. 15, p. 663, 2014

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 357

75 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2013 Last revised: 24 Oct 2014

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

David J. Reiss

Cornell University - Law School; Cornell University - Cornell Tech NYC

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

Lawmakers, prosecutors, homeowners, policymakers, investors, news media, scholars and other commentators have examined, litigated, and reported on the role that residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) played in the 2008 financial crisis. Big banks create RMBS by pooling mortgage notes into trusts and selling interests in those trusts. Absent from prior work related to RMBS securitization is the tax treatment of RMBS mortgage-note pools and the critical role tax enforcement should play in ensuring the integrity of mortgage-note securitization.

This article examines federal tax aspects of RMBS mortgage-note pools formed in the years leading up to the financial crisis. Tax law provides favorable tax treatment to real estate mortgage investment conduits (REMICs), a type of RMBS pool. To qualify for the favorable REMIC tax treatment, an RMBS pool must meet several requirements relating to the ownership and quality of mortgage notes. The practices of loan originators and RMBS organizers in the years leading up to the financial crisis have jeopardized the tax classification of a significant portion of the RMBS pools. Nonetheless, the IRS appears to believe that there is no legal or policy basis for challenging REMIC classification of even the worst RMBS pools. This article takes issue with the IRS’s inaction and presents both the legal and policy grounds for enforcing tax law by challenging the REMIC classification of at least the worst types of RMBS pools. The article urges the IRS to take action, recognizing that its failure to police these arrangements prior to the financial crisis is partly to blame for the economic meltdown in 2008. The IRS’s continued failure to police RMBS arrangements provides latitude to industry participants to facilitate future economic catastrophes. Even where the IRS does not take action, private parties can rely upon the blueprint set forth in the article to bring qui tam or whistleblower claims to accomplish the purposes of the REMIC rules and obtain the beneficial results that would occur if the IRS enforced the REMIC rules.

Keywords: mortgage-backed securities, MBS, Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit, REMIC, MERS, tax ownership of mortgage, tax ownership of note, qui tam, whistleblower, tax enforcement, financial crisis, subprime crisis

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Reiss, David J., REMIC Tax Enforcement as Financial-Market Regulator (September 30, 2013). University of Pennsylvania Journal of Business Law, Vol. 15, p. 663, 2014 , Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 357, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2333835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J P See
Morgan Securities Complaint, supra note 7 , p. 25 - 28
I R C See , 860g
A) (defining qualified mortgage as an obligation secured by an interest in real property)
See Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue 5 , p. 860 - 862
Crossref
Litigation in this area is moving quickly, so even work done a few years ago is not up to date. Nonetheless, an early article with a nice overview of cases that consider statelaw issues associated with MERS recording is John R. Hooge & Laurie Williams, Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.: A Survey of Cases Discussing MERS' Authority to Act
NORTON BANKRUPTCY LAW ADVISOR , volume 8 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2010-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,709
RANK
260,475
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies