Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exception Prioritization in Continuous Auditing: A Framework and Experimental Evaluation

Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2016

Posted: 6 Oct 2013 Last revised: 16 Oct 2016

Pei Li

Southwestern University of Finance and Economics (SWUFE)

David Y. Chan

St. John's University - Department of Accounting & Taxation

Alexander Kogan

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

Researchers have found that the volume of exceptions generated by a continuous auditing system can be overwhelming for an internal audit department to investigate. In this paper, we propose a framework that systematically prioritizes exceptions based on the likelihood of an exception being erroneous or fraudulent. The framework consists of six stages: 1) generation of exceptions using defined rules, 2) assignment of suspicious scores to exceptions using belief functions, 3) exception prioritization, 4) exception investigation by auditors, 5) rule confidence refinement by back propagation, and 6) rule additions by a rule learner algorithm. We also simulated the proposed framework using an experiment. The results from the experiment show that the framework has the potential to effectively prioritize exceptions in practice.

Keywords: Continuous Auditing, Exception Prioritization, Belief Functions, Belief Revision, Back Propagation, Rule Learner

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Pei and Chan, David Y. and Kogan, Alexander, Exception Prioritization in Continuous Auditing: A Framework and Experimental Evaluation (October 1, 2013). Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 30, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2334378 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2334378
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies