Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Shadow IT Systems on Perceived Information Credibility and Managerial Decision Making

49 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2013 Last revised: 31 Dec 2016

Noah Myers

Utah Valley University

Matthew Starliper

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Scott L. Summers

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 30, 2016

Abstract

Business trends show that more and more employees are creating shadow IT systems — IT systems that are not sanctioned or monitored by the IT department. This paper examines how the use of shadow IT in product costing impacts managers’ perceptions of information credibility and managerial decision-making. Using two experiments, we find that participants view information from shadow IT systems as less credible and they are less impacted by and less willing to rely on costing reports produced from shadow IT systems versus non-shadow IT systems. We also find that although participants are concerned about the credibility of shadow IT systems, they are not more likely to find simple mathematical errors embedded in shadow IT costing reports relative to non-shadow IT reports. This suggests that although concerned about shadow IT systems, managers still do not exercise sufficient care in evaluating reports created using these systems. The results of our study should prove informative as shadow systems become more prevalent in organizations.

Keywords: Shadow IT, ERP, Excel, Manager Decisions, Quantification

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M49, C91, M1, O3, O33

Suggested Citation:

Myers, Noah and Starliper, Matthew and Summers, Scott L. and Wood, David A., The Impact of Shadow IT Systems on Perceived Information Credibility and Managerial Decision Making (December 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2334463 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2334463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
E M Bamber
Expert Judgment in the Audit Team: A Source Reliability Approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 396 - 412 Posted: 1983
Crossref
B D Bannister
Performance outcome feedback and attributional feedback: Interactive effects on recipient responses
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 71 , issue 2 , p. 203 - 210 Posted: 1986
Crossref
S Behrens
Shadow systems: the good, the bad and the ugly
Communications of the ACM , volume 52 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 129 Posted: 2009
S Behrens , W Sedera
Why Do Shadow Systems Exist after an ERP implementation? Lessons from a Case Study
PACIS 2004 Proceedings. Paper 136. AIS Electronic Library Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,089
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,031
RANK
46,389
1 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Running Experiments on Amazon Mechanical Turk

By Gabriele Paolacci, Jesse Chandler, ...

The Online Laboratory: Conducting Experiments in a Real Labor Market

By John J. Horton, David G. Rand, ...

The Online Laboratory: Conducting Experiments in a Real Labor Market

By John J. Horton, David G. Rand, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies