Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can, and Should, the Parole Evidence Rule Be Invoked by or Against Tax Authorities in Tax Litigation? Distilling Lessons from U.S. Jurisprudence

Bulletin for International Taxation, Volume 67, Number 9, September 2013, pages 474-490

Posted: 6 Oct 2013 Last revised: 12 Aug 2016

Amir Pichhadze

University of Oxford

Date Written: September 1, 2013

Abstract

In recent years, Canada’s courts have expressed a number of conflicting views about whether the parol evidence rule can be invoked by or against the Minister of National Revenue (Minister) in tax disputes. Unfortunately, the courts in these cases did not elaborate, to a sufficient extent, on the justifications for their position on this issue. It is an open question, therefore, whether and why the parol evidence rule should (or should not) apply to the Minister.

In the U.S., Federal and State courts have explored this same issue extensively, and have produced meaningful jurisprudence that can be a source of influence for Canada as well as for any other jurisdiction whose law on this issue may be similarly unsettled and/or underdeveloped. The purpose of this paper is to distill lessons from the US jurisprudence. These lessons can then be transplanted elsewhere as a source of influence and guidance. For the purpose of example, the paper will apply these lessons to address the issue in the contexts of Canadian law.

Note: The paper is the Second Prize winner in the 2013 Annual Law Student Essay Competition of the American Judges Association (AJA).

Keywords: Parol Evidence Rule, Taxation, Litigation, U.S., Canada

JEL Classification: E62, H2, H71, K1, K4, K41

Suggested Citation:

Pichhadze, Amir, Can, and Should, the Parole Evidence Rule Be Invoked by or Against Tax Authorities in Tax Litigation? Distilling Lessons from U.S. Jurisprudence (September 1, 2013). Bulletin for International Taxation, Volume 67, Number 9, September 2013, pages 474-490, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2336222
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,326
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies