Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Law Matter? Win Rates and Law Reforms

Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, Volume 11, Issue 2, 378–407, June 2014

30 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2013 Last revised: 27 Oct 2014

David Gliksberg

Hebrew University of Jerusalem - Faculty of Law

Date Written: July 7, 2014

Abstract

The empirical legal study of tax law has developed greatly in recent years and has yielded many insights into the judiciary in particular and the legal system as a whole. This article continues this process by evaluating, through the prism of tax litigation and based upon theories of analyzing judicial decision making, the effect of law reforms on win rates and whether win rates can help predict future law reforms. The data enabled us to find changes in win rates over time, among different tax categories and in relation to several tax reforms. The detailed analysis found that law reforms have a significant effect on win rates and that win rates have a predictive ability for future law reform. These findings strengthen the legal model and the neo-institutional theory and do not provide support for selection effect theory or the attitudinal model regarding their explanatory function in analyzing judicial decisions.

Keywords: Empirical Research, Tax Law, Jurisprudence, Judicial Decision Making, Win Rates, Law Reforms

Suggested Citation:

Gliksberg, David, Does the Law Matter? Win Rates and Law Reforms (July 7, 2014). Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, Volume 11, Issue 2, 378–407, June 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2337054
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
116 References
Michael Abramowicz , H Emerson , Tiller
Citation to Legislative History: Empirical Evidence on Positive Political and Contextual Theories of Judicial Decision Making
38 J. of Legal Studies Posted: 2009
Crossref
Anne L Alstot
Equal Opportunity and Inheritance Taxation Posted: 2007
Mark P Altieri , Jerome E Apple , Penny Marquette , Charles K Moore
Political Affiliation of Appointing President and the Outcome of Tax Court Cases Posted: 2001
Burton M Atkins
Party Capability Theory as an Explanation for Intervention Behavior in the English Court of Appeal
35 American J. of Political. Science , volume 881 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,710
RANK
160,317
1 Citations
116 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Jurisprudence & Legal Philosophy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies