Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Playing with Fire: Resetting Cost Bases of Assets in Consolidated Groups

Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28(3), 2013

22 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2013 Last revised: 10 Oct 2013

Antony Ting

University of Sydney

Date Written: October 8, 2013

Abstract

Australia’s consolidation regime has been in operation for over ten years. Fine-tunings of the notoriously complex regime have been a regular exercise since its introduction in 2002. However, no one seems to be able to foresee the dramatic and significant impact of the “fine-tuning” in 2010 with respect to the treatment of the rights to future income and the residual tax cost setting (“TCS”) rules. In less than ten months after the 2010 amendments became effective, consolidated groups promptly lined up to claim tax refunds amounting to $10 billion arising out of those provisions. The outcome was more surprisingly as the 2010 amendments were the product of several years of consultations. The government urgently asked the Board of Taxation to review the provisions and eventually decided to amend retrospectively the 2010 amendments back to 2002. Many taxpayers and their tax advisors are understandably disquiet about the retrospective changes, as they will be denied a substantial portion of the $10 billion tax refund claims. The retrospective amendments to the 2010 amendments were finally enacted in July 2012.

The saga raises many questions. What went wrong in the process? Why did the supposedly minor “fine-tuning” of a ten-year old regime have such unforeseen significant revenue impact? Are there lessons to learn from the experience? This paper attempts to answer these questions, with the aim to identify tax design policies to minimise the risk of enacting similar problematic provisions in the future.

The paper first outlines the background and the consultation process leading to the 2010 amendments. This is followed by a review of the originally “unknown” revenue impact and the government’s responses. The paper then proceeds to analyse critically why the government – equipped with nearly ten years of experience of implementation – still got burnt by the consolidation regime. It argues that, besides the complexity of the regime that makes it extremely difficult for anyone to have a full understanding of the detailed operation of the regime, there is a more fundamental reason: the policy to reset cost bases of assets in a consolidated subsidiary. The tax cost setting rules of the consolidation regime replace the original cost bases of assets of subsidiaries with artificially created “reset cost bases” that rely heavily on market valuations of the assets. The swap of historical costs with the reset cost bases is hazardous and creates loopholes for taxpayers to manipulate. The paper concludes by suggesting some steps the government may take to avoid creating similar undesirable outcome in the future.

Keywords: tax consolidation

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Antony, Playing with Fire: Resetting Cost Bases of Assets in Consolidated Groups (October 8, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Volume 28(3), 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2337423 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2337423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
&amp; Greenwoods , Freehills
Submission on the Exposure Draft of Tax Law Amendment Posted: 2012
Crossref
&amp; Greenwoods , Freehills
Submission on the Exposure Draft of Tax Law Amendment Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
531,414
2 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Fiscal Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies