Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aligning Income Tax Laws with Accounting Rules: A Simplified Tax System Case Study

18 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2013 Last revised: 18 Oct 2013

Paul Kenny

Flinders University

Date Written: October 16, 2013

Abstract

The income tax laws currently run to over 8,000 pages of legislation in stark contrast to the relatively succinct accounting rules. This highlights the many differences between these rules in determining and calculating net income. The Ralph Report though sought to ‘align more closely taxation law with accounting principles wherever possible’. This paper seeks to examine the appropriateness of such an approach, using the new Simplified Tax System [STS] for small business as a case study.

In doing so this paper firstly provides a background to the STS provisions and sets out the eligibility requirements. Secondly, this paper compares the tax accounting features of the STS system with both the non-STS income tax laws and the accounting rules. This comparison finds that the STS exacerbates departures between the accounting and tax rules. Additionally, this paper examines the justification for the STS with regard to the taxation policy goals of simplicity, equity or efficiency. This paper finds that the STS fails these generally accepted taxation policy benchmarks. The paper concludes that policy makers would be better off reducing the volume of income tax law for small business by aligning the income tax laws more closely with the accounting rules.

Keywords: simplfied tax system, income tax, small business, tax concessions

JEL Classification: E62, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kenny, Paul, Aligning Income Tax Laws with Accounting Rules: A Simplified Tax System Case Study (October 16, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2340888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,088
RANK
528,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies