Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Materiality from Financial Towards Non-Financial Reporting

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 19/2013

23 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2013

Chiara Mio

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Marco Fasan

Università Ca’ Foscari Venezia; Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: October 2013

Abstract

The article aims at discussing the evolution of the concept of materiality in financial and, more specifically, non-financial reporting. Materiality will play a central role in the next years in order for reports to reach conciseness, which is at present one of the main goals both financial and non-financial reporting (in particular Integrated Reporting) aims to achieve. The article reviews the most relevant materiality frameworks and definitions and provides further insights for the advancement of the debate on materiality. It also analyzes the main differences (in terms of financial performance and governance characteristics) of the companies joining the IIRC Pilot Program that tackled the issue of materiality more effectively.

Keywords: materiality, non-financial information, integrated report

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Mio, Chiara and Fasan, Marco and Fasan, Marco, Materiality from Financial Towards Non-Financial Reporting (October 2013). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 19/2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340192 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2340192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Aasb
Standard AASB 1031
Prepared on 23 February 2010 by the staff of the Australian Accounting Standards Board'. Available at Posted: 2010-03-30
Accountability
Redefining Materiality. Practice and Public Policy for effective corporate reporting Posted: 2003-03-30
Accountability
Guidance Note on the Principles of Materiality, Completeness and Responsiveness as they Relate to the AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2006-03-30
Accountability
AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard Posted: 2008-03
Load more
1 Citations
Muhammad Bilal Farooq , Rashid Zaman , Dania Sarraj , Fahad Khalid
Examining the extent of and drivers for materiality assessment disclosures in sustainability reports
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
803
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,790
RANK
70,668
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Venice School of Management - Department of Management Working Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies