Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Rectification of Tax Mistakes versus Retroactive Tax Laws: Reconciling Competing Visions of the Rule of Law

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 3, p. 563, 2013

36 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2013

Catherine Anne Brown

University of Calgary - Faculty of Law

Arthur J. Cockfield

Queen's University - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This article examines the potential conflict between the right of the provinces to determine property rights, including the equitable right of rectification, and the federal government’s right to enact retroactive tax legislation. It poses a hypothetical question: Does rectification provide the appropriate remedy for the "unfairness" of retroactive legislation to taxpayers who intend and plan their transactions to minimize or avoid tax? The article reviews the trend toward the judicial broadening of rectification remedies in tax cases, as well as perspectives on reliance on the rule of law and transaction costs to determine if and when rectification would be appropriate. The authors conclude that, in certain circumstances, a provincial court could and should rectify a tax plan to counter the effects of a retroactive tax that does not target abusive tax planning, such as Quebec’s proposed (and subsequently withdrawn) tax increase aimed at high income earners.

Cet article examine le conflit potentiel entre le droit des provinces de déterminer les droits de propriété, y compris le droit de rectification en equity, et le droit du gouvernement fédéral de promulguer une législation fiscale avec effet rétroactif. Il soulève une question hypothétique : Est-ce que la rectification constitue la solution appropriée à l’ "injustice" d’une législation rétroactive visant les contribuables qui conçoivent et planifient leurs opérations en vue de réduire l’impôt à payer ou d’éviter d’avoir à en payer? L’article étudie la tendance vers l’élargissement judiciaire des recours en rectification dans les causes fiscales, ainsi que les perspectives d’un appui sur la primauté du droit pour déterminer si, et quand, une rectification serait appropriée. Les auteurs concluent que, dans certaines circonstances, un tribunal provincial pourrait et devrait rectifier un plan fiscal afin de contrer les effets d’un impôt rétroactif qui ne vise pas la planification fiscale abusive, comme la hausse d’impôt proposée par Québec (proposition qui a ensuite été retirée) et qui visait les contribuables ayant des revenus élevés.

Keywords: tax law, retroactive tax, rectification, mistake, rule of law, transaction costs

JEL Classification: A13, D8, H2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Catherine Anne and Cockfield, Arthur, Rectification of Tax Mistakes versus Retroactive Tax Laws: Reconciling Competing Visions of the Rule of Law (2013). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 3, p. 563, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340532
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Ibid
, p. 15 - 16
Crossref
Under the Coase theorem, supra note 114, when rights are well defined and transaction costs are zero, resource allocation is efficient and independent of the pattern of ownership (that is, it does not matter which party assumes liability for the effects on the other party)
Economic Analysis of Property Rights Posted: 1997
See Guido Calabresi
Of Coase, Calabresi, and Optimal Tax Liability
The Cost of Accidents: A Legal and Economic Analysis , volume 798 , p. 804 - 813 Posted: 1970
produces" a harm is in a better position to know what measures to take to reduce harm, and can be the cheapest avoider. Following Calabresi's views, Logue and Slemrod, supra note 117, at 781, maintain that, with respect to developing an optimal tax remittance regime, tax liabilities should be assigned so as to minimize the overall social costs of compliance and administration
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,357
RANK
413,954
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies