Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When We Taxed the Pyramids

41 Florida State University Law Review 39 (2013)

UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 13-18

39 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2013 Last revised: 11 Apr 2014

Steven A. Bank

University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: October 14, 2013

Abstract

One of the more anomalous features of the corporate income tax is the dividends received deduction, which permits a corporation to deduct from income an amount equal to some or all of the dividends it receives in its capacity as a shareholder of another domestic corporation. It is neither a device for avoiding multiple layers of taxation, since some intercorporate dividends are only partially deductible, nor is it a device for differentiating true dividends from distributions that are mere shifts in money from a corporation’s right pocket to its left pocket, since even a corporation that owns a single share of stock in a large public corporation can still exclude most of the dividend from income. Treasury’s Office of Tax Policy has called the provision distortionary and identified its reform as one method of improving the competitiveness of U.S. businesses abroad.

This paper, written for a Florida State University College of Law symposium on the 100th anniversary of the federal income tax, explores the evolution of the tax treatment of intercorporate dividends. The original rationale for taxing intercorporate dividends was to discourage the formation and continued existence of corporate pyramids, or multi-level corporate chains of ownership in which the investors at the top of the chain are able to leverage a relatively small investment in one corporation in order to exercise power and influence over the entire group. At the time, this pyramidal structure was thought to facilitate corporate governance issues, tax evasion, and undue political power and influence. Although the resulting tax burden from the introduction of intercorporate dividend taxation was too small to force an immediate change in organizational structures, it was part of a multi-faceted campaign against corporate pyramids that included the enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act and the repeal of the consolidated return filing privilege. As concern about pyramids declined and the consolidated return was revived, the continued existence of the intercorporate dividends tax was ripped from its original moorings and left to drift toward its current incoherent position. Although reform efforts have been largely ineffective over the last several decades, the rise in multinational corporations may force movement in this area.

Keywords: corporate taxation, intercorporate dividend taxes, tax reform

Suggested Citation:

Bank, Steven A., When We Taxed the Pyramids (October 14, 2013). 41 Florida State University Law Review 39 (2013), UCLA School of Law, Law-Econ Research Paper No. 13-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
G Roy , Gladys C Blakey , Blakey
The Revenue Act of 1932, 22 AM
EC. REV , volume 620 Posted: 1932
Cong , Rec
, volume 7126 Posted: 1932
Crossref
Text of Secretary Mills's Statement to Senate Finance Committee on Tax Bill
N.Y. TIMES , volume 20 Posted: 1932-04-07
&amp; Blakey , Blakey
The Revenue Act of 1932, supra note xx
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,194
RANK
422,861
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies