Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choice of Entity Issues: Single-Member LLCs vs. ‘Regular’ Sole Proprietorships

Journal of Taxation, Vol. 117, No. 5, 2012

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2340544

Posted: 15 Oct 2013 Last revised: 22 Oct 2013

Roy Clemons

New Mexico State University

Dennis R. Lassila

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Abstract

While the federal and state income taxation of regular sole proprietorships and single member LLCs taxed as sole proprietorships and the taxation of the owners of such businesses is substantially the same, there are a number of tax and non-tax differences that should be taken into account in deciding upon the type of business entity to use for business operations. In the case of small businesses with no employees, there is little difference between the two types of entities except, perhaps, with respect to the treatment of liabilities of the owner and of the business and the state tax treatment of the business in some states. On the other hand, for more complex businesses that have employees and/or are subject to federal excise taxes, the single member LLC is treated as a separate tax entity for reporting, deposit, and payment obligations, whereas the regular sole proprietorship is not. Further, the single member LLC has easier options to change the way in which it is taxed than does the regular sole proprietorship. In summary, this article covers some of the more important tax and non-tax differences between the two types of entities.

Keywords: non-tax, regular sole proprietorship, LLC

Suggested Citation:

Clemons, Roy and Lassila, Dennis R., Choice of Entity Issues: Single-Member LLCs vs. ‘Regular’ Sole Proprietorships. Journal of Taxation, Vol. 117, No. 5, 2012, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2340544, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2340544
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies