Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Justice for All: Reimagining the Internal Revenue Service

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 33, p. 101, 2013

Valparaiso University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-11

57 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2013 Last revised: 21 Oct 2013

David Herzig

Valparaiso University Law School; Ernst & Young

Date Written: September 21, 2013

Abstract

The ability of the Internal Revenue Service to both collect the tax and enforce the initial determination of tax liability in a neutral and fair manner has been compromised by a February 2011 pronouncement issued by the Department of Justice stating that the President and the Department of Justice believe that section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional and that the Department of Justice will no longer defend the statute in courts. The pronouncement results in a disparate treatment of similar taxpayers based solely on the forum of litigation. Through this lens, I examine whether it is proper for the Department of Justice and the Internal Revenue Service to continue to share prosecutorial powers when such results are possible. Assuming that any incremental improvement is desirable as long as it does not harm one person, I conclude that the Department of Justice should have exclusive litigation authority to protect against this very result.

Keywords: IRS, DOJ, DOMA, Nixon, Kennedy, agency power, Justice

Suggested Citation:

Herzig, David and Herzig, David, Justice for All: Reimagining the Internal Revenue Service (September 21, 2013). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 33, p. 101, 2013, Valparaiso University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 13-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2342366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Frank Easterbrook
Levels of Generality in Constitutional Interpretation: Abstraction and Authority, 59 U. CHI. L. REV Posted: 1992
Crossref
Although other agencies have similar issues, tax adds layers of complexity in the perceived taking by the government as well as the opt-in by all U.S. citizens and residents
See infra Part IV
Crossref
Camp
Equal Protection, supra note 6
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,665
RANK
592,728
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies