Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should There Be One Set of Passthrough Rules for All Non-Publicly Traded Businesses? (Option 2 of the Ways and Means Committee Draft to Reform the Taxation of Small Businesses and Passthrough Entities)

Posted: 25 Oct 2013

Willard B. Taylor

New York University School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 20, 2013

Abstract

This article argues that Option 2 of the Ways and Means Committee draft for the reform of passthrough entities, which would create a single set of rules for all passthroughs and replace the current rules for S corporations and partnerships, is a better choice than simply making specific changes to the partnership and S corporation rules. S corporation provisions were enacted to address an issue that is no longer relevant, and it makes no sense today to distinguish for tax purposes between an entity that is and entity that is not incorporated. A single set of rules would be simpler and would also put payroll tax reform squarely on the table.

Keywords: S corporations, payroll taxes, partnerships, entity classification reform

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Willard B., Should There Be One Set of Passthrough Rules for All Non-Publicly Traded Businesses? (Option 2 of the Ways and Means Committee Draft to Reform the Taxation of Small Businesses and Passthrough Entities) (October 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2342830
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
867
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies