Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit Shifting and 'Aggressive' Tax Planning by Multinational Firms: Issues and Options for Reform

ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 13-078

30 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2013

Clemens Fuest

ifo Institute – Leibniz Institute for Economic Research at the University of Munich; Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich; Center for Economic Studies (CES)

Christoph Spengel

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation; Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW)

Katharina Finke

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Jost Heckemeyer

ZEW – Leibniz Centre for European Economic Research

Hannah Nusser

University of Mannheim

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 15, 2013

Abstract

This paper discusses the issue of profit shifting and "aggressive" tax planning by multinational firms. The paper makes two contributions. First, it provides some background information to the debate by giving a brief overview of existing empirical studies on profit shifting and by describing arrangements for IP-based profit shifting which are used by the companies currently accused of avoiding taxes. We then show that preventing this type of tax avoidance is, in principle, straightforward. Second, we argue that, in the short term, policy makers should focus on extending withholding taxes in an internationally coordinated way. Other measures which are currently being discussed, in particular unilateral measures, like limitations on interest and license deduction, fundamental reforms of the international tax system and country-by-country reporting, are either economically harmful or need to be elaborated much further before their introduction can be considered.

Keywords: tax avoidance, profit shifting, multinational firms, intellectual property, tax policy, tax reform

JEL Classification: H20, H25, F23, K34

Suggested Citation:

Fuest, Clemens and Spengel, Christoph and Finke, Katharina and Heckemeyer, Jost and Nusser, Hannah, Profit Shifting and 'Aggressive' Tax Planning by Multinational Firms: Issues and Options for Reform (October 15, 2013). ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 13-078, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2343124 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2343124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
R Altshuler , H Grubert
Formula Apportionment: Is it Better than the Current System and are there Better Alternatives?
National Tax Journal , p. 1145 - 1184 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A J Auerbach , M P Devereux , H Simpson
Taxing corporate income
Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review , p. 837 - 893 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A. Clausing , Michael C. Durst
Allocating Business Profits for Tax Purposes: A Proposal to Adopt a Formulary Profit Split
U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 09-003, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 138 Pages: 67 Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Feb 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S R Bond , M P Devereux
Cash Flow Taxes in an Open Economy Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,451
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,651
RANK
4,440
33 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies