Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Overview of U.S. Whistleblowing Law

Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-38

27 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2013 Last revised: 12 Dec 2013

Shawn Marie Boyne

University of Minnesota Crookston

Date Written: October 22, 2013

Abstract

Although efforts to encourage whistleblowers to come forward date back to 1778, the United States has enjoyed a conflicted history with respect to whistleblowers. While some commentators pillory Edward Snowden, some privacy rights advocates praise his actions. Perhaps reflecting these conflicting sentiments, current protections in the U.S. are a patchwork collection of industry-specific legislation.

The current slate of legislation is largely the result of the confluence of recurring waves of media publicity exposing government fraud, the growth in government spending and involvement, and Congress’s attempts to respond to adverse publicity concerning government fraud. The succession of public crises running from Watergate to the wasteful spending in the Iraq War, to the collapse of the financial and securities industries have demonstrated that the government needs whistleblowers to help expose fraud and waste. As successive legislative attempts to extend whistleblower protections have demonstrated, reform “is usually precipitated by some crisis or new political movement that disrupts the preexisting status quo.” Ironically, in this fight to extend protections, Congress has often found itself at odds with federal judges who have repeatedly narrowed the scope of whistleblower protections and raised numerous hurdles whistleblowers.

Keywords: Whistleblowers, Fraud, Government Spending

Suggested Citation:

Boyne, Shawn, An Overview of U.S. Whistleblowing Law (October 22, 2013). Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law Research Paper No. 2013-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2343590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2343590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
U S C
CPSIA). The CPSIA amends the Consumer Product Safety Act of 1972 Posted: 2006
CPSA) Posted: 1972
Strengthening of Consumer Agency Opposed by its Boss
N.Y.TIMES Posted: 2007-10-30
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,086
RANK
160,765
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Legislation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies