Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hanging Together: A Multilateral Approach to Taxing Multinationals

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 364

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-012

33 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2013 Last revised: 26 Aug 2015

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: August 4, 2015

Abstract

The recent revelation that many multinational enterprises (MNEs) pay very little tax to the countries they operate in has led to various proposals to change the ways they are taxed. Most of these proposals, however, do not address the fundamental flaws in the international tax regime that allow companies like Apple or Starbucks to legally avoid taxation. In particular, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project and is supposed to make recommendations to the G20, but it is not clear yet whether this will result in a meaningful advance toward preventing BEPS. This paper will advance a simple proposal that will allow OECD member countries to tax MNEs based in those countries without impeding their competitiveness. The key observation is that in the 21st century unilateral approaches to tax corporations whose operations span the globe are obsolete, and a multilateral approach is both essential and feasible. The paper therefore proposes that each OECD country commit to taxing its multinationals fully on a current basis, since such a multilateral approach eliminates all the usual arguments against current taxation.

Keywords: multinationals, OECD, BEPS

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Hanging Together: A Multilateral Approach to Taxing Multinationals (August 4, 2015). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 364, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2344760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2344760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Marco De Roni
How Can the Multilateral Tax Treaty Help Overcoming the Treaty Shopping Issue
53 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2015 · Last revised: 12 Nov 2015 · Downloads: 279
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gerhard Vorwold
The Global Formulary Apportionment (GFA) Model - Concept of Changed Structures in the Taxation of Multinational Enterprises
73 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 205
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sol Picciotto
Taxing Multinational Enterprises as Unitary Firms
ICTD Working Paper 53 · 39 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2018 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kimberly A. Clausing
The Effect of Profit Shifting on the Corporate Tax Base in the United States and Beyond
40 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2015 · Last revised: 19 Jun 2016 · Downloads: 3,495
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,699
RANK
42,427
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies