Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixed Place Permanent Establishment - 'Disposal Test'

Taxmann's International Taxation [October 2013, Volume 9, Issue 4]

5 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2013

Ashish Karundia

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India

Date Written: October 21, 2013

Abstract

Under the Double Tax Conventions, right of the contracting states to tax the business profits of an enterprise of other contracting state arises only if the enterprise carries on its business in the first mentioned state through a permanent establishment (‘PE’) situated therein.

PE is generally classified into following categories: I. Fixed place PE; ii. Construction PE; iii. Installation PE; iv. Service PE; v. Dependent Agency PE.

This Article examines one of the critical and much debated aspects of fixed place PE. One of the sine qua non of a fixed place PE is that the fixed place of business through which the business is carried on should be ‘at the disposal’ of the taxpayer (‘disposal test’).

Keywords: permanent establishment, disposal test

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Karundia, Ashish, Fixed Place Permanent Establishment - 'Disposal Test' (October 21, 2013). Taxmann's International Taxation [October 2013, Volume 9, Issue 4], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2345781 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2345781
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Referred as Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement '(DTAA) in India
Rolls Royce P/C V. Dy , Dit
19 SOT 42 (Delhi) affirmed by Delhi High Court in Rolls Royce P/c v. OfT (International Taxation Posted: 20081
Seagate Singapore International Headquarters (P.) Ltd., In re
Similar to Private Letter Rulings (PLR) in United States of America (USA)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
846
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,528
RANK
66,006
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies