Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Minding the Gap in Tax Interpretation: Does Specificity Oust the General Anti-Avoidance Rule Post-Copthorne?

Queen's Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 1, 2012

50 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2013

Brian Studniberg

Henein Hutchison Robitaille LLP

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

Following the Supreme Court of Canada’s divided decision in Lipson, the Tax Court of Canada and the Federal Court of Appeal have struggled with the role of the Income Tax Act’s specific anti-avoidance rules in the context of the misuse and abuse analysis when applying the general anti-avoidance rule (the GAAR). Interestingly, this problem was predicted at the time of the GAAR’s advent and has not yet been dealt with definitively and convincingly by the courts.

The author suggests that, in Copthorne, the Supreme Court missed a chance to provide greater guidance on how to conduct the misuse and abuse analysis and left taxpayers with many unanswered questions. What weight should be afforded to specific rules? What is the proper role of the GAAR? And, by implication, is the GAAR improperly applied to abusive transactions that fall outside of specific anti-avoidance rules, or should its application be limited to novel situations where no specific rules yet apply? The author argues that in situations where no specific rule applies to an avoidance transaction that runs contrary to the object and purpose of the Act, the GAAR may have a residual purpose. However, he contends that it should not be used as a second chance to find a taxpayer’s conduct abusive, particularly where a specific rule applies or is relied upon by the taxpayer. It is the role of Parliament, and not the judiciary, to amend a specific rule – or the GAAR itself – if Parliament is unsatisfied with the results of their application.

Suggested Citation:

Studniberg, Brian, Minding the Gap in Tax Interpretation: Does Specificity Oust the General Anti-Avoidance Rule Post-Copthorne? (December 1, 2012). Queen's Law Journal, Vol. 38, No. 1, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2347718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Dan G Fontaine &amp; Christopher , P Kong ; Allan , R Lanthier
The CRA has indicated that it will not apply subsection 18(6) where each loan is in the same amount, the interest on the second loan exceeds that paid under the first and the specified nonresident shareholder of the first borrower has de jure control over both subsidiaries
An exception of sorts exists when a non-resident loans its Canadian subsidiary an amount which is then loaned in turn to another Canadian subsidiary , volume 25 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1984
See Interpretation Bulletin
Crossref
Subsection 55(2) is designed to prevent the conversion of taxable capital gains into tax-free intercorporate dividends. The "butterfly" under subsection 55(3)(b) is a form of divisive reorganization designed to facilitate a partial or total distribution of property by a corporation among its shareholders on a tax deferred basis and functions as an exception to subsection
See Information Circular IC88-2, supra note 118 , volume 55 , p. 6 - 7
FCA 258 (available on QL) (where an issue was whether an amendment to subsection 251(1) of the Act to broaden the definition of "affiliated persons" to include a trust and a majority-interest beneficiary suggested that earlier transactions to take advantage of the under-inclusive definition were abusive). The Court held that the prior definition was carefully crafted and that Parliament chose to limit its scope accordingly
Triad Gestco Ltd v The Queen Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,327
RANK
499,164
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies