Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The FATCA Registration Process -- A Primer on the IRS FFI Net

Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 12, pages 1209-1329

118 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2013

Dean Marsan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: September 16, 2013

Abstract

In this report, Dean Marsan examines the new foreign financial institution registration process created by the IRS and how it will fit into the larger FATCA and tax information global ecosystem. After conducting an in-depth review of the registration process contemplated by the IRS for global financial institutions — small and large, foreign and U.S. — Marsan concludes that the newly finalized Form 8957, "Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) Registration," and its electronic brethren on the newly opened FATCA portal funnel into a single registration form more than 700 pages of tax regulations and other administrative guidance, hundreds of pages of newly (and yet to be agreed on) intergovernmental agreements from more than 80 countries, and the domestic laws in each of those countries. This report includes a discussion of the FATCA online registration user guide recently released by the IRS, and the correcting amendments to the FATCA final regulations released on September 10, including current registration planning under those new rules.

Keywords: FATCA registration, FATCA, FFI, IGA, GIIN, Lead FFI, Sponsored FFI, FATCA ID, EAG, Form 8957, tax information reporting, PFFI, Limited FFI, Branch, USFI, QI, NQI, Member, RO, POC, USWA, TIN, NFFE, ECI, FDAP

Suggested Citation:

Marsan, Dean, The FATCA Registration Process -- A Primer on the IRS FFI Net (September 16, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 140, No. 12, pages 1209-1329, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2347551
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,754
RANK
258,444
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies