Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Should Determine Whether an Agency's Explanation of a Tax Rule is Adequate?

63 Duke Law Journal, 2014, Forthcoming

GWU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-124

GWU Law School Public Law Research Paper No. 2013-124

20 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2013

Richard J. Pierce

George Washington University Law School

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This essay is Professor Pierce’s contribution to the annual Duke Law Journal symposium on administrative law. The topic of this year’s symposium is "Taking Administrative Law to Tax." The other participants in the symposium make three main points: (1) IRS and Treasury have long engaged in practices that are inconsistent with the APA, specifically including issuance of legislative rules without complying with the notice and comment procedure described in APA section 553; (2) courts should require IRS and Treasury to comply with the APA; and, (3) several opinions issued by the Supreme Court in recent years suggest that courts are prepared to require IRS and Treasury to comply with the APA when they issue tax rules.

Professor Pierce agrees with the other participants on all three of those points. He parts company with the other participants on one important question, however. He argues that courts should not require IRS and Treasury to comply with APA section 553 as that section has been interpreted by courts. He describes the many ways in which courts have dramatically expanded the requirements of APA section 553. He argues that courts should not be encouraged to apply the judicial version of APA section 553, as opposed to the original version Congress contemplated, to tax rules because to do so would so "interrupt the flow of revenues as to jeopardize the nation’s fiscal stability" in violation of the Anti-Injunction Act. Professor Pierce argues that the courts should continue to refuse to allow pre-enforcement review of tax rules to discourage courts from applying the unduly demanding judicial version of APA section 553 to tax rules.

Suggested Citation:

Pierce, Richard J., Who Should Determine Whether an Agency's Explanation of a Tax Rule is Adequate? (2013). 63 Duke Law Journal, 2014, Forthcoming, GWU Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2013-124, GWU Law School Public Law Research Paper No. 2013-124, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2350908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Sally Katzen
OIRA at Thirty: Reflections and Recommendations, 63 Admin
L. Rev , volume 103 , p. 107 - 108 Posted: 2011
Cass Sunstein
The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs: Myths and Realities
Harv. L. Rev , volume 1838 Posted: 2013
Jennifer Nou
Agency Self-Insulation Under Presidential Review, 126 Harv
L. Rev Posted: 2013
Supra Sunstein
note 40, at 1847. judicial interpretations of "notice" and "concise general statement of basis and purpose
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
703,106
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

George Washington University Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

George Washington University Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies