Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS University Compliance Project Report on UBIT Issues: Roadmap for Enforcement...Reform...or Repeal?

National Center on Philanthropy and the Law, New York, NY, October 2013

44 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2013

John D. Colombo

University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

The recent completion of the IRS College and University Compliance Project again raises questions about the rationale for and purpose of the Unrelated Business Income Tax (UBIT). This paper addresses these questions in three main parts. Part I reviews existing UBIT law, particularly as it applies to colleges and universities. The second part is a short summary of the IRS findings on UBIT compliance. The final part then examines whether the UBIT should be reformed or even repealed. The paper concludes that while expansion of the UBIT to an all-inclusive commerciality tax (a proposal I have made in previous papers) is still my preferred solution, absent such reform, Congress should consider simply repealing the UBIT and relying on disclosure and non-tax incentives to control commercial activity by charities.

Suggested Citation:

Colombo, John David, The IRS University Compliance Project Report on UBIT Issues: Roadmap for Enforcement...Reform...or Repeal? (October 1, 2013). National Center on Philanthropy and the Law, New York, NY, October 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2350468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2350468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
John D Colombo , Mark A Hall
THE CHARITABLE TAX EXEMPTION 128-129 , p. 175 - 179 Posted: 1995
Burton A See Generally , Weisbrod
Modeling the Nonprofit Organization as a Multiproduct Firm: A Framework 165 for Choice
TO PROFIT OR NOT TO PROFIT, supra note 95 , volume 47 , p. 55 - 59
Kris Hundley , Kendall Taggart
America's Worst Charities, Tampa Bay Times Posted: 2013-06-06
Not even two weeks after the Tampa Bay Times story ran, the chief executives of BBB Wise Giving Alliance
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,721
RANK
451,566
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies