Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unitary Taxation and International Tax Rules

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 369

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-020

ICTD Working Paper No. 26

28 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2013 Last revised: 25 Jan 2018

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Zach Pouga

EY - Tax Partner; Michigan Law School

Date Written: November 3, 2014

Abstract

Any proposal for adoption of a unitary tax (UT) system ought to clear the first and most common hurdle of its compatibility, or lack of it, with the current norms in the international tax system – specifically, the current tax treaty network. This paper argues that unitary taxation is compatible with most of the current bilateral tax treaties and local countries’ national tax laws.

The first argument leveled against UT is the revision of the United States (US) and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) model tax treaties to specifically exclude application of UT through formulary apportionment. However, this argument carries little to no weight because most tax treaties currently outstanding, including those signed as recently as 2011 and even involving the US, do not adopt the changes and still contain Article 7 language allowing for a unitary approach.

Another argument for incompatibility is that separate accounting (SA) and arm’s length standard (ALS) are so enshrined in tax treaties that they have become some sort of international law that is binding even when not explicitly stated. This argument, again, has no merit. On the one hand, it is well established that tax treaties, specifically model tax treaties, do not create a right to tax and cannot create a binding rule of law, even international law. On the other hand, and assuming the wide embodiment of SA into the treaties creates some sort of international binding norm, the same argument would hold for UT because the Article 7(4) language that authorises UT is still very present in most tax treaties currently outstanding.

We acknowledge that a complete transition from SA to UT would be a long-term process requiring major revisions across the international tax regime; however, it is our view that countries in general, and developing countries in particular, can legally apply UT because it is in compliance with both the tax treaties they have signed, if any, and their national laws.

Keywords: unitary taxation; tax; international tax; formulary apportionment; separate accounting; arm’s length standard; developing countries; multinational companies

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Pouga Tinhaga, Zachee, Unitary Taxation and International Tax Rules (November 3, 2014). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 369, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-020, ICTD Working Paper No. 26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2351920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2351920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Reuven S. Avi-Yonah , Kimberly A. Clausing , Michael C. Durst
Allocating Business Profits for Tax Purposes: A Proposal to Adopt a Formulary Profit Split
U of Michigan Law & Economics, Olin Working Paper No. 09-003, U of Michigan Public Law Working Paper No. 138 Pages: 67 Posted: 17 Dec 2008 Last revised: 1 Feb 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
M Durst
Beyond BEPS: A Tax Policy Agenda for Developing Countries, ICTD Working Paper 18, Brighton: International Centre for Tax and Development Joint Committee on Taxation (2010) Present Law and Background Related to Possible Income Shifting and Transfer Pricing , p. 37 - 47 Posted: 2010
Le Gall , J
Can a Subsidiary Be a Permanent Establishment of its Foreign Parent? Commentary on Article 5, par. 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention
The David R. Tillinghast Lecture, Tax Law Review , volume 60 , p. 179 - 214 Posted: 2007
Document No. C.425 (b). M.217 (b).1933.II.A, Geneva: League of Nations League of Nations (1928) Report on Double Taxation and Tax Evasion, presented by the General Meeting of Government Experts on Double Taxation and Tax Evasion
League of Nations (1933) Taxation of Foreign and National Enterprises -Methods of Allocating Taxable Income , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText Posted: 1928-10-31
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,309
RANK
119,199
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies