Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Hangover: Trailing Nexus

33 Va. Tax Rev. 497

50 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2013 Last revised: 5 Jun 2014

Adam B. Thimmesch

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - College of Law

Date Written: June 2, 2014

Abstract

Discussions regarding the scope of state taxing power over nonresident persons have generally focused on one issue — the conditions under which such persons have a sufficient nexus with a state such that the state can tax them without violating the Dormant Commerce Clause. That issue has resulted in significant debate regarding whether physical or economic presences are necessary to create state power. Unfortunately, however, the discussion has ignored an equally important question — when state power, once it has been created, terminates. Notwithstanding the lack of academic or judicial analysis of this issue, many states currently apply “trailing nexus” policies that extend their authority past the cessation of taxpayers’ nexus-creating activities. That concept challenges traditional views of the nexus requirement and seems to conflict directly with the Court’s physical-presence rule. This article analyzes the permissibility and scope of trailing nexus policies under both physical-presence and economic-nexus paradigms and finds that a disaggregated view of the nexus requirement supports its validity. The article also critiques states’ current trailing-nexus formulations and proposes an economic-latency approach that better comports with the Court’s Dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence.

Keywords: nexus, trailing nexus, dormant commerce clause, state taxation, Quill, Marketplace Fairness

Suggested Citation:

Thimmesch, Adam B., The Tax Hangover: Trailing Nexus (June 2, 2014). 33 Va. Tax Rev. 497, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2352063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Stat , Ann
, volume 110 , p. 79 - 111 Posted: 2012
Rev Ky , Stat , Ann
010(25)(f)-(g) , volume 141 Posted: 2012
Minn , Stat , Ann
, volume 290 Posted: 2013
Crossref
N J Admin , Code
, volume 18 , p. 7 - 8 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,156
RANK
226,842
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies