Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Classification of Accounting Systems and Effects of IFRS Adoption

International Journal of Management Science and Information Technology, Forthcoming

19 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2013

Irena Jindrichovska

Anglo-American University Prague

Dana Kubickova

University of Finance and Administration

Date Written: November 11, 2013

Abstract

This paper uses the classification of accounting systems as a guide to explore the impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) reporting rules on corporate financial statements and financial ratios in comparison to their local counterparts in selected European countries. In this study, it was found that the research in different countries on Europe yield different results and the impact of IFRS is not homogeneous due to different country backgrounds and different socio-cultural traditions.

The assumption that the impact of IFRS adoption correlates with membership in a certain group of classification of accounting systems was weakly confirmed.

It had been found that the impact of these changes on financial ratios is more pronounced in Southern Europe: Greece, Italy, Spain, and Portugal and to a lesser extent in Turkey. The impact is less pronounced in the countries of Northern and Central Europe: Germany, Poland, Finland and Sweden. The impact was significant and negative in Hungary.

These findings are to an extent supported by the classification of National accounting systems by Nobes 1983 and 1989. However, a new research on classification needs to be performed because of recent developments,the significant impact of the global financial crisis and also because it has been awhile since the original classification was developed.

Keywords: Classification of accounting systems, financial statements, financial ratios, IFRS, international comparison

JEL Classification: M41, M40, M14

Suggested Citation:

Jindrichovska, Irena and Kubickova, Dana, International Classification of Accounting Systems and Effects of IFRS Adoption (November 11, 2013). International Journal of Management Science and Information Technology, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2353222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
A Agca , R Aktas
First Time Application of IFRs and Its Impact on Financial Ratios: A Study on Turkish Listed Firms
Problems and Perspectives in Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 99 - 112 Posted: 2007
N C Albu , N Albu
The context of the possible IFRS for SMEs implementation in Romania -an exploratory study. Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 9 , p. 45 - 71 Posted: 2010
R C Baker , E M Barbu
Trends in research on international accounting harmonization
The International Journal of Accounting Posted: 2007
Crossref
J Beke
International Accounting Standards Effects on Business Management
Business Management and Strategy , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
753
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,885
RANK
77,057
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies