Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Waiting for Perseus: A Sur-Reply to Professors Graetz and Warren

Tax Law Review, Forthcoming

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-32

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2014-02

80 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2013 Last revised: 15 Jun 2020

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: November 5, 2013

Abstract

This manuscript responds to Income Tax Discrimination: Still Stuck in a Labyrinth of Impossibility by Professors Michael Graetz and Alvin Warren (121 Yale L.J. 1118). In that article, Professors Graetz and Warren challenge many of the arguments we made in our own article entitled, "What is Tax Discrimination?" (121 Yale L.J. 1014). In our earlier article, we set out to accomplish two goals. First, we sought to identify the principle behind the doctrine of tax discrimination as that doctrine is applied by the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ) and to translate that principle into economic terms. Second, we sought to describe how courts can advance that principle through case law.

Part I of this article defends our argument that the courts interpret the tax nondiscrimination principle to require "competitive neutrality," a concept closely related both to the colloquial notion of a "level playing field" between domestic and cross-border economic actors and to the formal economic concept of capital ownership neutrality (CON). Among other topics covered in Part I, we defend our focus on efficiency as the principal decision-making criterion used by courts for deciding tax discrimination cases, explain how we translated the concept of CON into the labor context, defend our focus on cross-border workers as the only group of workers who are legally relevant to the tax nondiscrimination question, provide some preliminary thoughts on the differences between "restriction" cases and tax "discrimination" cases, and provide further discussion of our interpretive sources.

Part II fleshes out our argument that in the absence of cross-border harmonization of tax rates and bases competitive neutrality requires two conditions. The first condition is that all states must agree on one of two methods of avoiding double taxation on interstate commerce. The two alternative methods are worldwide taxation with unlimited foreign tax credits and what we call "ideal deduction", which includes territorial taxation as one instantiation. The second condition is that all taxes must be uniform on either a source or residence basis. A source tax is uniform if it applies in the same manner to all income from the same source state without regard to the residence of the taxpayer who earns that income; a residence tax is uniform if it applies in the same manner to all income earned by a resident regardless of source. In our original article, we noted that both the ECJ and the U.S. Supreme Court disclaim authority to force states to agree on a method of avoiding double taxation. Accordingly, because it would not be possible for courts to enforce both conditions required to achieve competitive neutrality, we argued that if, as it appears, the courts desire to promote competitive neutrality through the doctrine of tax discrimination, they can do so by enforcing the uniformity requirement. Among other topics covered in Part II, we provide responses to specific questions and challenges raised by Graetz and Warren, including how ideal deduction would work with graduated tax rates and variations in national tax bases and whether ideal deduction could achieve competitive neutrality in the absence of fixed residence In Part II, we also provide resolutions for three factual scenarios that Graetz and Warren posed and for which they claim that a competitive neutrality interpretation of tax discrimination provides no resolution.

Keywords: Taxation, discrimination, capital export neutrality, CEN, capital import neutrality, CIN, capital ownership neutrality, CON, European Court of Justice, ECJ, competitive neutrality, European Union

JEL Classification: F15, H20, H24, H25, J61, K34

Suggested Citation:

Mason, Ruth and Knoll, Michael S., Waiting for Perseus: A Sur-Reply to Professors Graetz and Warren (November 5, 2013). Tax Law Review, Forthcoming, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 13-32, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2014-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2354004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Part III of our article makes the case for a competitive neutrality interpretation of nondiscrimination
Mason & Knoll
Id
Id
, volume 49 , p. 63 - 65
See Mason , &amp; Knoll
, p. 1092 - 97
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,390
RANK
413,954
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies