Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working on the Weekend: Do Analysts Strategically Time the Release of Their Recommendation Revisions?

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2064874

53 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2013 Last revised: 6 Apr 2016

Lynn L. Rees

Utah State University - School of Accountancy; Utah State University - Huntsman School of Business

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

Paul A. Wong

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 5, 2016

Abstract

We examine whether financial analysts strategically time the announcement of their recommendation revisions consistent with their incentives to maintain relations with management. We provide evidence that investor and media attention to recommendation revisions is reduced on weekends, which analysts can exploit to strategically time the release of their revisions. We find that downgrades are a higher proportion of weekend revisions than weekday revisions and that analysts with characteristics that suggest they possess the strongest incentives to maintain favor with management are more likely to downgrade on the weekend. In contrast, analysts absent these characteristics are more likely to release downgrades during the week, consistent with these analysts being driven primarily by other incentives, such as the timely release of their recommendation and garnering media attention. We also present evidence suggesting that strategic disclosure of recommendation downgrades is associated with greater access to management on public earnings conference calls.

Keywords: Financial analysts; stock recommendations; strategic timing; management access

JEL Classification: G10, G24, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rees, Lynn L. and Sharp, Nathan Y. and Wong, Paul A., Working on the Weekend: Do Analysts Strategically Time the Release of Their Recommendation Revisions? (April 5, 2016). Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2064874, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2354561 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2354561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
B Groysberg , P Healy , D A Maber
What drives sell-side analyst compensation at high-status investment banks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 969 - 1000 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Hirshleifer , S H Teoh
Limited attention, information disclosure, and financial reporting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 337 - 386 Posted: 2003
Crossref
H Hong , J D Kubik
Analyzing the analysts: Career concerns and biased earnings forecasts
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 313 - 351 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K W Hui , P E Yeung
Underreaction to industry-wide earnings and the post-forecast revision drift
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 4 , p. 701 - 737 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
454
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,882
RANK
145,674
6 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies