Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GAAR in Action: An Empirical Exploration of Tax Court of Canada Cases (1997-2009) and Judicial Decision Making

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 2, 2013

Osgoode CLPE Research Paper No. 50/2013

47 Pages Posted: 21 Nov 2013

Jinyan Li

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Thaddeus Hwong

Faculty of Liberal Arts & Professional Studies, York University

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

This article presents a modest, exploratory empirical study of Canada’s general antiavoidance rule (GARR) in action. The study examines the entire body of GAAR cases decided by the Tax Court of Canada in the period 1997-2009, as well as certain personal and societal attributes of the judges who decided these cases. The findings support three tentative conclusions. First, GAAR has been a game changer, albeit a modest one, with respect to the courts’ approach to tax-avoidance cases. Second, while considerable uncertainty remains with respect to the application of GAAR, a pattern in judicial decisions appears to be emerging. Third, there are indications that a judicial smell test is at play in some GAAR decisions; in particular, judicial decision making in GAAR cases appears to have been influenced by the judge’s attributes, including experience on the Tax Court, gender, preappointment experience, and regional ties. Because the data sets examined in the study are very small, these findings are by no means conclusive. Nevertheless, the hope is that they will help to advance empirical understanding of GAAR in action.

Keywords: Tax avoidance, statutory interpretation, general anti-avoidance rule, GAAR, empirical, research

JEL Classification: K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Li, Jinyan and Hwong, Thaddeus, GAAR in Action: An Empirical Exploration of Tax Court of Canada Cases (1997-2009) and Judicial Decision Making (2013). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 61, No. 2, 2013, Osgoode CLPE Research Paper No. 50/2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2356922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
330,157
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Osgoode Hall Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies