Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
HP's Purchase of Autonomy: 'Hubris at the Top' and Failure of Internal Controls

4 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2013 Last revised: 27 Nov 2013

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: November 20, 2013

Abstract

This case study illustrates how hubris at the top caused a breakdown in internal controls and allowed Hewlett Packard’s management to embark on a disastrous acquisition. We refer to COSO’s 2013 internal control framework which defines internal controls as “policies and procedures to ensure that an organization meets its objectives”. COSO’s first principle calls for a “tone at the top” of ethics and integrity. The control environment should consist of a culture that follows policies and procedures and acknowledges mistakes. In the case of its acquisition of Autonomy, HP failed to conduct basic financial analysis and due diligence. Rather than admit to weakness in its own internal controls, HP laid the blame on Autonomy’s former managers. HP’s auditor similarly failed to acknowledge internal control failures. Post Sarbanes-Oxley, accountants and auditors must think broadly about the relationship between internal controls and corporate governance.

For an accompanying undergraduate presentation of this case study, please see: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2360487

Keywords: Hewlett-Packard, internal controls, tone at the top, mergers & acquisitions, corporate governance, Sarbanes-Oxley, COSO

JEL Classification: G34

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, HP's Purchase of Autonomy: 'Hubris at the Top' and Failure of Internal Controls (November 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2357327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2357327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Autonomy Corp
Annual Report Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Bandler , D Burke
How Hewlett-Packard lost its way
Fortune Posted: 2012-05-21
Internal Control-Integrated Framework
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Posted: 2013
Hewlett-Packard
Annual Report Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,374
RANK
45,078
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Finance Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies