Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Serving Two Masters and Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on Internal Auditors' Objectivity

33 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2013 Last revised: 13 Jul 2014

Florian Hoos

IMD Lausanne

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Jason L. Smith

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Paulette Tandy

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 2014

Abstract

In this study, seventy-nine experienced internal auditors from the gaming industry participated in an experiment designed to investigate two factors that may affect internal auditors' objectivity: (1) reporting to two masters (management or audit committee) who have conflicting preferences and (2) whether or not the internal audit function (IAF) is used as a management training ground (MTG). The participants completed a case – developed with assistance from industry chief audit executives – wherein they were asked to evaluate business risks associated with a major gaming investment and to make a final recommendation. The results include three important findings. First, the internal auditors' risk assessments reveal an interaction effect between masters’ preferences (MP) and MTG. When the IAF is not used as a MTG, internal auditors' risks assessments do not significantly differ when the IAF reports to senior management versus the audit committee. However, when the IAF is used as a MTG, internal auditors' risk assessments are significantly lower when the IAF reports to senior management versus the audit committee. Second, the internal auditors' recommendations show that they provided more favorable recommendations regarding the investment to the audit committee than to management. Third, when the IAF is used as a MTG, the internal auditors provide more favorable recommendations than when the IAF is not a MTG. Overall our results highlight the interplay between MP and whether or not the IAF is being used as a MTG on internal auditors’ objectivity.

Keywords: Internal auditors, internal audit function, objectivity, management training ground

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Hoos, Florian and Messier Jr, William F. and Smith, Jason L. and Tandy, Paulette, The Effects of Serving Two Masters and Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on Internal Auditors' Objectivity (July 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 Citations
Gijs Hendrix , Jack Wai , Judith Tjin A Sioe , Martina Hener-Schaminée , Wim Ottema
Non-auditors in the internal audit function: better practices for successful implementation
Maandblad Voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie , volume 94 , issue 3/4 , p. 103 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Dubravka Vlašić , Karmen Paolić Laganis
Internal audit function in the Croatian hospitality industry
WSB Journal of Business and Finance , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 53 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Margaret H. Christ , Adi Masli , Nathan Y. Sharp , David A. Wood
Rotational Internal Audit Programs and Financial Reporting Quality: Do Compensating Controls Help?
67 Pages · Posted: 21 Oct 2011 · Last revised: 2 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 1,215
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Florian Hoos , Natalia Kochetova‐Kozloski , Anne Christine d'Arcy
The Importance of the Chief Audit Executive's Communication: Experimental Evidence on Internal Auditors' Judgments in a ‘Two Masters Setting’
International Journal of Auditing , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 166 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,549
RANK
122,537
7 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An Updated Analysis of Enforcement Actions Against Engagement Quality Reviewers

By Mike Kraussman and William F. Messier, Jr.

Opportunities for Task-Level Research Within the Audit Process

By William F. Messier, Jr.

A Summary of Research on External Auditor Reliance on the Internal Audit Function

By Charles Bame-aldred, Duane M. Brandon, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies