Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Response to the Article 'Worse than Exemption'

21 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2013

Gil Savir

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: November 21, 2013

Abstract

In recent years there has been wide debate among scholars about the deferral approach of the US tax system. The dispute is mainly focused on the right set of rules that should be adopted when taxing foreign income generated by US-based multinational enterprises (hereinafter MNEs) from their foreign-controlled subsidiaries. Recently, the scholars J. Clifton Fleming, Robert J. Peroni and Stephen E. Shay suggested in their article WORSE THAN EXEMPTION that the current American tax system is worse for the US public treasury than an exemption tax system would be, since it in effect creates tax advantages that keep the US public treasury in a deficit until the MNEs repatriate their foreign profits. This paper will review the foregoing article and will argue that the reason for the disadvantages is the non-competitive corporate income tax (hereinafter CIT) rates prevailing in the US, combined with a misguided tax treatment of US-based MNEs when repatriating their profits from overseas. Finally, this article presents the solution formulated by President Barak Obama in “The President’s Framework for Business Tax Reform,” which proposes to replace the current treatment of overseas-generated profits of US based MNEs.

Keywords: MNE, tax credit, Tax Holidays, deferral tax system, anti-deferral rule, CFC

Suggested Citation:

Savir, Gil, In Response to the Article 'Worse than Exemption' (November 21, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Avi-Yonah
International Tax As International Law , p. 7 - 8
Crossref
Id
Harmful Tax Competition -An Emerging Global Issue , volume 70 Posted: 1998
Deloitte -Japan
Inbound Tax Newsletter -Tax reform 2009: Foreign dividend exemption
Crossref
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
785,592
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies