Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Maturity and Strategic Impact of Investments in ERM

48 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2013

Mark S. Beasley

North Carolina State University

Bruce C. Branson

North Carolina State University - College of Management

Donald P. Pagach

North Carolina State University

Date Written: November 22, 2013

Abstract

Over the past decade, expectations for more effective oversight of risks by boards of directors have significantly increased. These expectations emanate from stock exchanges, regulators, credit rating agencies and other key stakeholders. Proponents of enhanced risk oversight argue that an increased understanding of enterprise-wide risks provides strategic benefit by helping the board and management identify and manage risks that may impact the achievement of strategic objectives while at the same time helping the board monitor the extent of risk-taking on the part of management in their desire to meet these objectives. In response to these growing expectations, some boards have asked management to embrace a more holistic, top-down approach to risk oversight widely known as enterprise risk management (ERM) while others have not. Little is known about the way in which boards and management organize their processes and the impact of those processes on the level of ERM adoption. More importantly, little is known about the extent to which ERM is perceived to provide strategic benefit to those organizations that have invested in developing a robust ERM process. Based on data gathered from over 750 survey responses from executives of organizations spanning a number of industries and sizes, we find that organizations with greater ERM maturity are significantly more likely to have taken steps to formally engage the board and senior management in specific risk oversight tasks, and certain board and management risk practices are associated with perceptions that ERM provides strategic advantage.

Keywords: Enterprise Risk Management, ERM, Board of Directors, ERM Maturity

JEL Classification: G22, M20, M40

Suggested Citation:

Beasley, Mark S. and Branson, Bruce C. and Pagach, Donald P., An Analysis of the Maturity and Strategic Impact of Investments in ERM (November 22, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358628 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358628
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
AS/NZS. 2009. Australia/New Zealand Standard 4360Risk Management. Standards
Crossref
R Baxter , J Bedard , R Hoitash , A Yezegel
Enterprise risk management program quality: determinants, value relevance, and the financial crisis. Contemporary Accounting Research Forthcoming Posted: 2013
Crossref
M Beasley , R Clune , D Hermanson
Enterprise risk management: an empirical analysis of factors associated with the extent of implementation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 521 - 531 Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Beasley , D Pagach , R Warr
Information conveyed in hiring announcements of senior executive overseeing enterprise-wide risk management processes
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 311 - 332 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,403
RANK
260,475
9 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies