Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aspects of Obstacles for Applying Activity Based Costing (ABC) System in Egyptian Firms

Scientific Papers Series Management, Economic Engineering in Agriculture and Rural Development, 2013

4 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2013

Petru Stefea

West University of Timisoara - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Karim Mamdouh Abbas

Modern University for Technology and Information (MTI)

Osama Wagdi

Management Sciences Department, Akhbar Alyom Academy

Date Written: November 1, 2013

Abstract

The following investigation aims to determine the aspects of obstacles for applying Activity Based Costing (ABC) system in the Egyptian case and the significant differences among the effects of such obstacles. The Study used the survey method to describe and analyze the obstacles in some Egyptian firms. The population of the study is Egyptian manufacturing firms. This survey used the number of 392 questionnaires that were used throughout the total of 23 Egyptian manufacturing firms, during the first half of 2013. Finally, the study found some influencing obstacles for applying this system (ABC) and there were significant differences among the aspects of obstacles for applying ABC system in the Egyptian manufacturing firms.

Keywords: ABC, activity based costing, cost account, Egyptian firms, manufacturing

Suggested Citation:

Stefea, Petru and Abbas, Karim Mamdouh and Wagdi, Osama, Aspects of Obstacles for Applying Activity Based Costing (ABC) System in Egyptian Firms (November 1, 2013). Scientific Papers Series Management, Economic Engineering in Agriculture and Rural Development, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
M M El-Gibaly , A A Diab
A model to integrate of the ABC and the BSC in the Egyptian companies: Aligning strategic efficiency and performance improvement ( Field Study )
Journal of American Science , volume 8 , issue 6 , p. 543 - 554 Posted: 2012
L P Grasso
Are ABC and RCA accounting systems compatible with lean management Posted: 2005
Management Accounting Quarterly Montvale , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 12 - 27
Crossref
K M A Helmy
The role of target cost to increase the competitive capacity for Egyptian establishments by applying on industrial sector , p. 110 - 111 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,430
RANK
210,914
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies