Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Audit Quality: Insights from Audit Professionals and Investors

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2358163

61 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2013 Last revised: 14 Aug 2015

Brant E. Christensen

Brigham Young University

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Marjorie K. Shelley

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Date Written: October 2, 2014

Abstract

Projects seeking to define, measure, and evaluate audit quality are on the agendas of auditing standards setters as well as audit firms. The PCAOB currently provides information regarding audit quality through the release of inspection reports, and the Board intends to establish and report audit quality indicators. To provide additional perspective on audit quality, we obtain auditors’ and investors’ views, definitions, and indicators of audit quality. We find that investors’ definitions of audit quality focus more on inputs to the audit process than do auditors’, and that the two groups have differing views on the relation between PCAOB inspections and audit firm quality. We find a consensus that auditor characteristics may be the most important determinants of audit quality, and that restatements may be the most readily available signal of low audit quality. We relate responses to a generally accepted audit quality framework, provide support for archival audit research, and identify additional disclosures that participants suggest could signal audit quality. Taken together, we provide evidence regarding the construct of audit quality in the post-SOX environment, add substance to theoretical frameworks, evaluate many of the audit quality indicators proposed by the PCAOB, and suggest avenues for future research.

Keywords: Audit quality, audit quality indicators, PCAOB inspections, survey, restatements

Suggested Citation:

Christensen, Brant E. and Glover, Steven M. and Omer, Thomas C. and Shelley, Marjorie, Understanding Audit Quality: Insights from Audit Professionals and Investors (October 2, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2358163, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2358163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2358163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
John L. Abernathy , Michael Barnes , Chad M. Stefaniak
A Summary of 10 Years of PCAOB Research: What Have We Learned?
Pages: 45 Posted: 26 Mar 2013 Last revised: 28 Mar 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C P Agoglia , J F Brazel , R C Hatfield , S B Jackson
How do audit workpaper reviewers cope with the conflicting pressures of detecting misstatements and balancing client workloads? Auditing: A
Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Balsam , J Krishnan , J S Yang
Auditor industry specialization and earnings quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 71 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Bedard
Expertise in auditing: Myth or reality. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 132 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,819
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,707
RANK
21,640
85 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies