Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Fraudulent Activities by Public Companies as Alleged in Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases Issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2011

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2014, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2013

Helen M. Roybark

Radford University - College of Business and Economics

Date Written: November 25, 2013

Abstract

Accurate and timely financial reporting and disclosure is the cornerstone of market efficiency, capital formation, and economic growth. Fraudulent activities undermine public confidence and often lead to increased regulation. Fraudulent activities negatively impact organizations and their stockholders and diminish public confidence. This study adds to the literature on fraudulent activities by analyzing enforcement actions taken by the SEC in 2011. To that end, an analysis of 127 Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2011 is provided.

Keywords: Fraudulent Activities, Fraudulent Financial Reporting, Fraud, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases, AAERs

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Roybark, Helen M., An Analysis of Fraudulent Activities by Public Companies as Alleged in Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases Issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2011 (November 25, 2013). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2014, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359699
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Report To The Nations On Occupational Fraud And Abuse
Global Fraud , Study
Retrieval Date Posted: 2013-06-01
Crossref
Fraudulent Financial Reporting
Committee on Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) Posted: 1987
Fraudulent Financial Report Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,448
RANK
230,843
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies