Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intellectual Capital, Strategy and Financial Crisis from a SMEs Perspective

Posted: 26 Nov 2013 Last revised: 21 Jan 2014

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Vasilios-Christos Naoum

University of Piraeus

Orestes Vlismas

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: November 26, 2013

Abstract

Purpose – This study investigates the relationship of Intellectual Capital (IC) with the strategy of Small-Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and their executive decisions regarding the strategy of their IC portfolio during a financial crisis.

Design/methodology/approach – The analysis is informed by the responses of 162 Greek SMEs on a structured questionnaire. Greek SMEs constitute an appropriate research setting since they operate within an environment of economic recession, financial turbulence and operational uncertainty.

Findings – Initial analysis indicates that SMEs' strategic position seems to have effects on the composition of their IC portfolio, especially when a SME is strategically classified as Analytic according to Miles and Snow's (1978) typology. Greek SMEs do not seem to follow the suggested by literature executive decisions for the strategic management of their IC portfolio. They apply on their IC components strategies that could be classified as "Act" or "Analyse" under Wissenzbilanz's typology (Bornemann and Alwert, 2007) regardless the prospects for improvement expected for these IC components. Therefore, while SMEs seem to care about their IC they do not manage it in a coherent and strategically beneficial way.

Research limitations/implications – Findings are based on SMEs' views on the relation of their IC with their strategy and the executive decisions they make regarding the strategic management of their IC portfolio during the financial crisis. A possible limitation but also an area for future research is to examine the implications of these relations between SMEs' strategy and IC portfolio on SMEs' financial performance.

Originality – The contribution of this study is that explores the relations of SMEs' executive decisions in relation to the strategic management of IC components and the influence that the strategic position of SMEs exerts on the composition of their IC portfolio during a financial crisis.

Keywords: Intellectual Capital, Strategy, SMEs, Financial Crisis, Wissenzbilanz’s Typology

JEL Classification: M40, M49, M50

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Naoum, Vasilios-Christos and Vlismas, Orestes, Intellectual Capital, Strategy and Financial Crisis from a SMEs Perspective (November 26, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2359920
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,175
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies