Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Is the Value of Multiple Certifications in Forensic Accounting?

Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 7(2), 113-143.

31 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2014 Last revised: 27 Aug 2015

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

In the public accounting profession there are thousands who hold multiple certifications. For example, in addition to a CPA license, a frequent combination includes both a CMA and CIA. Likewise, within the forensic accounting profession there are many who hold multiple certifications such as the CFE and the CFF. As a sociological phenomenon, there is a paucity of research on what are either the actual or the perceived benefits of holding multiple accounting certifications, and research on the benefits of holding multiple certifications in the forensic accounting profession is non-existent. This article reports the results of a recent survey of forensic accountants who hold multiple certifications. The results reveal that the perceived benefit received consists principally of symbolic capital rather than economic.

Keywords: forensic accounting, fraud examination, certifications, symbolic capital

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, What Is the Value of Multiple Certifications in Forensic Accounting? (December 1, 2014). Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, 7(2), 113-143. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2361908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) Posted: 2013
Crossref
The CFE Credential. Available at Posted: 2013
Crossref
CFE Qualifications. Available at Posted: 2013
Crossref
Certified Forensic Accountant
Cr.FA. Available at Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Wm. Dennis Huber
Forensic Accounting: An Anglo-American Comparison – Forensic Accounting in the U.S.A.
Journal of Forensic & Investigative Accounting, Vol. 6, Issue 3, Special International Issue, 2014, pp. 154-170. · 17 Pages · Posted: 12 Nov 2014 · Downloads: 585
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
440
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,210
RANK
151,124
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies