Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Change Theory for Accounting System Reform in Health Sector: A Case Study of Kerman University of Medical Sciences in Iran

International Journal of Health Policy and Management 2013; 1: 279–285

7 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2013

Mohammad Hossein Mehrolhasani

Kerman University of Medical Sciences

Mozhgan Emami

Kerman University of Medical Sciences

Date Written: November 27, 2013

Abstract

Background: Change theories provide an opportunity for organizational managers to plan, monitor and evaluate changes using a framework which enable them, among others, to show a fast response to environmental fluctuations and to predict the changing patterns of individuals and technology. The current study aimed to explore whether the change in the public accounting system of the Iranian health sector has followed Kurt Lewin’s change theory or not. Methods: This study which adopted a mixed methodology approach, qualitative and quantitative methods, was conducted in 2012. In the first phase of the study, 41 participants using purposive sampling and in the second phase, 32 affiliated units of Kerman University of Medical Sciences (KUMS) were selected as the study sample. Also, in phase one, we used face-to-face in-depth interviews (6 participants) and the quote method (35 participants) for data collection. We used a thematic framework analysis for analyzing data. In phase two, a questionnaire with a ten-point Likert scale was designed and then, data were analyzed using descriptive indicators, principal component and factorial analyses. Results: The results of phase one yielded a model consisting of four categories of superstructure, apparent infrastructure, hidden infrastructure and common factors. By linking all factors, totally, 12 components based on the quantitative results showed that the state of all components were not satisfactory at KUMS (5.06±2.16). Leadership and management; and technology components played the lowest and the greatest roles in implementing the accrual accounting system respectively. Conclusion: The results showed that the unfreezing stage did not occur well and the components were immature, mainly because the emphasis was placed on superstructure components rather than the components of hidden infrastructure. The study suggests that a road map should be developed in the financial system based on Kurt Lewin’s change theory and the model presented in this paper underpins the change management in any organizations.

Keywords: Financial Management; Health Sector Reform; Change Theories; Kurt Lewin’s Theory; Kerman; Iran

Suggested Citation:

Mehrolhasani, Mohammad Hossein and Emami, Mozhgan, Change Theory for Accounting System Reform in Health Sector: A Case Study of Kerman University of Medical Sciences in Iran (November 27, 2013). International Journal of Health Policy and Management 2013; 1: 279–285, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2362239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R M Devos
Lewin's Change Management Model: Understanding the three Stages of Change
M Alvesson , S Sveningsson
Changing Organizational Culture: Cultural Change Work in Progress Posted: 2008
R Todnem
Organizational change management: a critical review
Journal of Change Management , volume 5 , p. 369 - 80 Posted: 2005
Crossref
I Vogel
Report of Review of the Use of Theory of Change in International Development. The UK Department for International Development (DFID) , p. 1 - 83 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,102
RANK
580,215
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Public Service Delivery eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies