Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance vs. Tax Aggressiveness: A Unifying Conceptual Framework

68 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2013

Gerrit M. Lietz

ISM International School of Management; University of Muenster

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

I develop a unifying conceptual framework of corporate tax planning. The framework accommodates constructs frequently studied in empirical tax accounting research, i.e. tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness, tax sheltering, and tax evasion, by relating them to the seminal notion of effective tax planning presented in Scholes and Wolfson [1992]. Most importantly, literature knows no universal approach to the constructs of tax avoidance and tax aggressiveness (Hanlon and Heitzman [2010]). In search of a useful reference point to delimit non-aggressive from aggressive tax avoidance, I put a particular focus on the more-likely-than-not probability of a tax transaction being legally sustainable upon potential audit (e.g. Lisowsky, Robinson, and Schmidt [2013]). I further provide an overview of commonly used and recently suggested empirical measures of the underlying constructs and discuss their context-sensitive strengths and weaknesses. Finally, I arrange the measures along the lines of the proposed conceptual framework in an attempt to provide guidance as to which proxy most adequately reflects which conceptual construct. Although a demanding task, the promotion of a sound theoretical understanding and careful empirical handling of the relevant tax constructs should enrich the discussion and foster consistent inferences.

Keywords: tax avoidance, tax aggressiveness, tax planning, conceptual framework

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lietz, Gerrit M., Tax Avoidance vs. Tax Aggressiveness: A Unifying Conceptual Framework (2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2363828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2363828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
174 References
Reporting and Disclosure Standards") and Interpretation No. 1-2
Tax Return Positions Posted: 2011-10-20
File No. S7-49-02, Proposed Rule: Strengthening the Commission's Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence
AICPA Posted: 2003
Raquel Meyer Alexander , Michael L. Ettredge , Mary S. Stone , Lili Sun
Assessing Uncertain Tax Benefit Aggressiveness
Pages: 54 Posted: 18 Jan 2008 Last revised: 14 Oct 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rosanne Altshuler , Alan Auerbach
The Significance of Tax Law Asymmetries: An Empirical Investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Eocnomics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
5,090
ABSTRACT VIEWS
14,341
RANK
4,105
38 Citations
174 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies