Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Insights from the Initial Post-Implementation Review of FIN 48

33 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2013

Jennifer Blouin

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Leslie A. Robinson

Dartmouth College - Tuck School of Business; Dartmouth College - Accounting

Date Written: December 5, 2013

Abstract

In 2009, the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) determined that the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standard setting process required a formal review to monitor and address issues that can arise after the implementation of accounting standards. The FAF selected FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, as the initial post-implementation review (PIR) standard. This paper informs the academic community about the PIR process and provides an academic perspective on the initial PIR of FIN 48. In particular, we demonstrate the role of the academic literature using the FIN 48 literature review prepared as part of the PIR process.

Suggested Citation:

Blouin, Jennifer and Robinson, Leslie, Insights from the Initial Post-Implementation Review of FIN 48 (December 5, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2364809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2364809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Blouin , L Robinson
Academic research on FIN 48: What have we learned? Prepared for the Financial Accounting Foundations' Post-Implementation Review of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No Posted: 2011
Dave Burgstahler , Ilia Dichev
Earnings management to avoid earnings decreases and losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Francois Degeorge , Jayendu Patel , Richard Zeckhauser
Earnings management to exceed thresholds
Journal of Business , volume 72 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Pieter Elgers , Ray Pfeiffer , Susan Porter
Anticipatory income smoothing: A reexamination
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 405 - 422 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,997
RANK
397,014
2 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies