Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ending Reliance on Opinions of the Taxpayer's Own Lawyer

Tax Notes, Vol. 141, No. 947, 2013

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 546

17 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2013 Last revised: 13 Feb 2014

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

Ending Reliance argues that tax opinions given by an attorney or accountant to his clients are not reliable if they will be revealed to a court or the IRS. Attorneys and accountants now face competition in an economic world, and clients will pay for the easy and yielding opinions but not for the ones that say no. An attorney or accountant may now give an opinion without fear of penalty, although there is a large chance that it will not withstand a challenge by the IRS.

Tax doctrine has firmly (albeit recently) settled that opinions by an adviser loyal to the seller of a tax transaction may not be relied on by the buyer. The seller’s adviser will lean in too far, patch over difficulties, and fail to identify all the defects. The presentation return position opinions are similarly inflated. Johnson would deny admission of tax opinions in a penalty controversy as proof of taxpayer good faith or reasonable cause for failure to pay tax.

The proposal is offered as a part of the Shelf Project, which is a collaboration of tax professionals developing ways to raise revenue, when Congress is ready, in ways that increase the fairness and efficiency of the tax base. The Shelf Project has 70 proposals so far. Comments are welcome either as public debate, directed to the Tax Notes editor or privately to cjohnson@law.utexas.edu.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha, Ending Reliance on Opinions of the Taxpayer's Own Lawyer (December 2, 2013). Tax Notes, Vol. 141, No. 947, 2013, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 546, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2365309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
E G See , Simon V Kpmg Llp
2006) (approving settlement of class action suit against KPMG and Brown & Wood LLP for $153 million)
U.S. Dist. LEXIS , volume 35943 Posted: 2006
Denney V
Crossref
&amp; Jenkens , Gilchrist
) (approving class action settlement by Jenkens & Gilchrist) Posted: 2005-02-18
Patricia Hurtado , Chris Dolmetsch
Chicago Lawyer Daugerdas Found Guilty in Tax Shelter Trial Posted: 2011-05-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,219
RANK
505,351
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies