Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Politics of Fair Value Reporting and the Governance of the Standards-Setting Process: Critical Issues and Pitfalls from a European Perspective

Critical Perspectives on Accouting, 2015 (29)

34 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2013 Last revised: 5 Feb 2019

Vera Palea

University of Turin

Date Written: December 10, 2013

Abstract

Accounting is not simply a metric; rather it is a calculative practice which shapes the socio-economic environment. Therefore, looking only at the substance of accounting standards is sometimes inadequate.

From a European Union perspective, this paper provides a general framework that deals with the potential changes in society produced by financial reporting. More specifically, it discusses fair value reporting from two points of view, which are strictly linked. The first relates to the politics of fair value accounting and its potential impact on the economic and social system, while the second relates to the governance of the standards-setting process.

Financial regulation is one of the competencies of the European Union. Therefore, this paper claims that controversial issues in financial reporting should be examined in the framework of the Lisbon Treaty, which sets out the fundamental principles on which the European Union has decided to build and shape its future.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, IFRS, Fair Value, IASB, European Regulation 1606/2002, EFRAG, Lisbon Treaty

JEL Classification: M4o, P00, K00

Suggested Citation:

Palea, Vera, The Politics of Fair Value Reporting and the Governance of the Standards-Setting Process: Critical Issues and Pitfalls from a European Perspective (December 10, 2013). Critical Perspectives on Accouting, 2015 (29), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2365695 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2365695
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,385
RANK
454,090
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies