Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the OVDP a Good Deal? Assessing the OVDP in Terms of FBAR Willfulness

65 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2013

Eliezer Mishory

George Washington University - Law School

Date Written: November 26, 2013

Abstract

This Note argues that the OVDP’s value depends on the taxpayer’s exposure to willful FBAR penalties. This Note also provides a guide to willfulness in FBAR violations. The OVDP is a program that the IRS adopted as part of its recent crackdown on taxpayers with undisclosed offshore bank accounts. The OVDP provides taxpayers with amnesty from willful FBAR penalties. On the other hand, entering the OVDP can be an expensive and protracted ordeal. For taxpayers with a high risk of facing willful FBAR violations, the OVDP is a good deal. For other taxpayers, the OVDP is an unnecessary ride. Deciding whether or not to enter the program is difficult because there is a dearth of guidance regarding what makes an FBAR violation willful. There are very few criminal FBAR cases and there are only two civil FBAR cases. This Note examines judicial guidance on willfulness in other contexts and extrapolates principles of willfulness that apply to FBAR violations. Using these principles, this Note examines the FBAR cases to identify current judicial thinking on FBAR willfulness. This exercise indicates that there is currently a strong inclination to find that FBAR violations are willful. This makes entering the OVDP more compelling and a better deal for taxpayers than it may seem.

Keywords: OVDP, Offshore, BSA, FBAR, Willful, Cheek, Ratzlaf, Williams, Mcbride, Bank Secrecy, IRS, Tax, IRC, IRM

Suggested Citation:

Mishory, Eliezer, Is the OVDP a Good Deal? Assessing the OVDP in Terms of FBAR Willfulness (November 26, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2365986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2365986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Fed.Appx , volume 655 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Id
F Supp
, p. 2 - 1186 Posted: 2012
Id
, p. 1204 - 1209
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,883
RANK
314,322
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies