Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
S Corp Taxation: Level the Playing Field

Tax Notes, April 22, 2013

8 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2013

Cherie Hennig

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington - Department of Accountancy and Business Law

Blaise Sonnier

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs - College of Business

William A. Raabe

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

John Everett

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 22, 2013

Abstract

A MAXTax would equalize the tax treatment of business income from passthrough entities with that of corporations. The tax revenue loss from a MAXTax would be partially offset by closing the S corporation SE tax loophole. In the absence of a MAXTax, individuals may choose to incorporate their businesses to take advantage of the lower corporate tax rate. If the S corporation payroll tax loophole is not closed, more individuals will use S corporations to minimize their Medicare and net investment income tax liabilities, significantly reducing projected tax revenues from those taxes.

Keywords: S corporation, self employment tax, medicare tax, net investment income tax, choice of entity, small business

JEL Classification: E62, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hennig, Cherie and Sonnier, Blaise and Raabe, William A. and Everett, John, S Corp Taxation: Level the Playing Field (April 22, 2013). Tax Notes, April 22, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2365490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
472,944
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies