Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Repairs vs. Improvements: An Intractable Issue in U.S. Income Tax Law?

Boris I Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates and Gifts, Forthcoming

80 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2013

Lawrence Lokken

University of Florida College of Law

Date Written: December 13, 2013

Abstract

The issue is seemingly simple: Is an expenditure affecting tangible property used in business or held for investment currently deductible as a repair, or must it be capitalized as an improvement to the property? In practice, the issue has proven to be a major point of conflict between the IRS and businesses. The IRS and Treasury have worked for more than a decade to develop guidance for its agents and taxpayers that will reduce the number of factual disputes over this issue. These efforts culminated with the issuance in September 2013 of comprehensive regulations. The regulations do clarify many points of frequent contention, but they introduce another problem: The regulations are lengthy and very complex, with provisions affecting particular factual scenarios being scattered over scores of pages.

This paper provides an explanation of these regulations. It will be published in the treatise, Boris I Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates and Gifts.

Keywords: income taxation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Lokken, Lawrence, Repairs vs. Improvements: An Intractable Issue in U.S. Income Tax Law? (December 13, 2013). Boris I Bittker & Lawrence Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates and Gifts, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2367337
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Reg
Casualty losses are governed by Reg. §1.263(a)-3(k)(1)(iii)
Reg
263(a)-3(k)(7) Ex. 1. The capitalized costs must include costs of installing the new components
Reg
263(a)-3(k)(1)(ii)
Reg
263(a)-3(k)(7) Ex. 2
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
449,075
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies