Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Mechanism and Legal Regulation Assuring Audit Independence

UC Davis Business Law Journal, Vol. 12, p. 225, 2012

18 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2013

Te-Kuang Chou

Southern Taiwan University of Science and Technology - Department of Finance

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Audit independence is a matter of degree. However, given its cornerstone role of the financial market, our modern capitalist system not only needs the appearance of audit independence, but also needs it in reality. Under the present business circumstances, specifically after Enron and many other catastrophic audit failures, the market critically needs audit independence to construct a sustainable and prosperous capitalist market system. This essay compares the pre- and post-SOX mechanism and the legal requirements assuring audit independence. In particular, the current legal regulation is examined from the economic perspective. The results suggest that the current post-SOX legal regulations cannot satisfy both the effectiveness test and the fairness test of public policy. That means the current regulations neither effectively discourage audit independence violations nor do they avoid negative externalities or encourage internalize the foreseeable externalities. Improvements in the post-SOX era only elevate the appearance of audit independence, but regrettably do not create independence in reality. This essay concludes that the accounting industry’s business model, created by federal securities laws, and its inherent conflict of interest needs to be corrected. Without seriously addressing these key points, the real audit independence will never come true.

Keywords: audit independence, SOX, corporate governance

JEL Classification: G28, G32

Suggested Citation:

Chou, Te-Kuang, An Examination of the Mechanism and Legal Regulation Assuring Audit Independence (2012). UC Davis Business Law Journal, Vol. 12, p. 225, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2367620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,073
RANK
778,997
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies