Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Death, Taxes, and Property (Rights): Nozick, Libertarianism, and the Estate Tax

66 Maine L. Rev. 1 (2013)

28 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2013

Jennifer Bird-Pollan

Wayne State University Law School

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Contemporary policy discussions of taxes in general, and of the estate tax in particular, are often dominated by arguments that start from libertarian premises. However, these libertarian views are rarely fully unpacked, and, as a result, the conclusions of these arguments often extend beyond what can be justified by those libertarian premises. With regard to the estate tax, many libertarians argue that government interference with the free transfer of assets after death is an immoral violation of the property rights of the deceased. In this Article, I work through the libertarian arguments of Robert Nozick in his seminal work, Anarchy, State, and Utopia, with special attention to his views of property and inheritance rights. By demonstrating that libertarianism cannot justify property rights that extend beyond death, I show that, in fact, libertarianism is entirely consistent with a robust estate tax. While this does not mean that the libertarian views of property rights require an estate tax, those views do not, on moral grounds, preclude the imposition of the tax.

Suggested Citation:

Bird-Pollan, Jennifer, Death, Taxes, and Property (Rights): Nozick, Libertarianism, and the Estate Tax (2013). 66 Maine L. Rev. 1 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2367774
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
§ See
The structure of the system allows a credit against taxes incurred on lifetime transfers up to an amount sufficient to permit a tax-free transfer of a set exemption-equivalent amount Posted: 2001
Id
Currently that amount is $5,250,000 per individual. Id. The credit must be used up chronologically, so inter vivos transfers will command the first use of the credit, and whatever has not been used before death will remain available to permit tax-free transfers after death as well Posted: 2505
See Jacobson
121, fig. C (illustrating, in part, that: the estate tax was enacted in 1916; the first gift tax was enacted in 1924, but repealed in 1926; the modern gift tax was enacted in 1932; and the United States has had both gift and estate taxes for all years since then , volume 1
Boris I Bittker , Al
FEDERAL ESTATE AND GIFT TAXATION 17
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,855
RANK
189,749
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies