Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Utopia

66 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2013 Last revised: 1 Aug 2015

Samuel D. Brunson

Loyola University Chicago School of Law

Date Written: January 7, 2015

Abstract

Communalism has a long history in the United States. Throughout the nineteenth century, the country was seemingly dotted with utopian groups. Most were Christian groups, trying to follow the New Testament model of a body of believers that held all property in common. While these groups generally fell apart quickly, in response to inside or outside pressures, several large groups survived the turn of the century.

In the early twentieth century, though, these religious communal groups had to contend with something new: an income tax. Communalism did not fit into the individualistic economic system envisioned by the drafters of the income tax. So Congress designed a special tax regime, now codified in section 501(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, which exempts religious communal holding companies from tax, while imputing the holding companies’ income to the members of the group. Section 501(d) provides communitarian groups with flexibility to reflect their unusual economics.

There exist, however, a number of problems with the design and implementation of section 501(d). This Article will survey the three principal problems. The first is scope: under current law, only religious communitarian groups can elect to use the section 501(d) regime. Second is uncertainty and vagueness in the statute. Third is I.R.S. overreach in the enforcement, applying doctrines (such as the public policy doctrine) that do not apply to section 501(d). In this Article, I discuss why and how to remedy these problems, while not opening section 501(d) to abusive tax avoidance.

Keywords: religious or apostolic organizations, communitarian, utopia, section 501(d), corporate income tax, partnership tax, pass-through taxation, federal income taxation, Establishment Clause, quasi-pass-through, employment taxes, SECA, dividends, anti-abuse, polygamy

Suggested Citation:

Brunson, Samuel D., Taxing Utopia (January 7, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368969 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
The Church has made headlines over the years because of its practice of polygamy
E G See
An element of the Church's communal life . . . is an economic arrangement that cme to be called the 'United Effort Plan' (UEP). It involves the common ownership of assets, especially real property
The movement relied on early Brigham Young doctrines of communalism and plural marriage
Bennion , volume 85
Dean L May
One Heart and Mind: Communal Life and Values among the Mormons
AMERICA'S COMMUNAL UTOPIAS , volume 135 , p. 140 - 181 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,421
RANK
403,275
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies