Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence

International Journal of Economics and Finance Vol. 4, No. 4; 2012

11 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2013

Naser M. Abughazaleh

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Osama Musa Al-Hares

Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Date Written: April 1, 2012

Abstract

Using a sample of 528 firm-year observations, drawn from the top 500 UK listed firms for 2005 and 2006, this study employs a multivariate ordinary least squares regression to assess the value relevance of goodwill impairment losses following the adoption of IFRS No. 3 "Business Combinations." Empirical results reveal a significant negative association between reported goodwill impairment losses and market value, suggesting that these impairments are perceived by investors to reliably measure a decline in the value of goodwill and incorporated in their firm valuation assessments. The study provides evidence consistent with IASB’s objectives in developing the impairment-only standard and reinforces the argument that, through IFRS 3, managers are more likely to use their accounting discretion to convey privately held information about the underlying performance of the firms.

Keywords: Goodwill accounting, Impairment, International Financial Reporting Standards, Value

Suggested Citation:

Abughazaleh, Naser M. and Al-Hares, Osama Musa and Haddad, Ayman E., The Value Relevance of Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence (April 1, 2012). International Journal of Economics and Finance Vol. 4, No. 4; 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
N Abughazaleh , O Al-Hares , C Roberts
Accounting Discretion in Goodwill Impairments: UK Evidence
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 22 , issue 3 , p. 165 - 204 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1997
Financial Reporting Standard 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1998
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 22, Accounting for Goodwill
Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1984
Load more
1 Citations
Kenneth L. Bills , Chris E. Hogan , Jennifer Puccia
Does the PCAOB’s Emphasis on Management Review Controls Improve Financial Reporting Decisions? Evidence from Goodwill Impairments
66 Pages · Posted: 22 Sep 2022 · Last revised: 25 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 225
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,635
RANK
30,181
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Implications of Unverifiable Fair-Value Accounting: Evidence from the Political Economy of Goodwill Accounting

By Karthik Ramanna

Purchase Versus Pooling in Stock-for-Stock Acquisitions: Why Do Firms Care

By David Aboody, Ron Kasznik, ...

Evidence on the Use of Unverifiable Estimates in Required Goodwill Impairment

By Karthik Ramanna and Ross L. Watts

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies