Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the IRS Effectively Regulate Tax Planning Advice?

Chapman University Law Research Paper No. 13-16

36 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2013

Michael B. Lang

Chapman University, The Dale E. Fowler School of Law

Date Written: December 19, 2013

Abstract

This article asks whether tax planning advice can ever be effectively regulated by the IRS. The article first explores whether tax advice differs in kind from other forms of legal advice. Secondly, it looks at the clear regulatory distinction between the treatment of return preparation advice and the treatment of tax planning advice, taking into account historical anomalies and asking if the difference in treatment is justified or misguided. The article then reviews and evaluates efforts to regulate planning advice directly, including earlier attempts to address tax shelter opinions in Circular 230, the current covered opinion rules and written advice rules, and the proposed changes in these sections of Circular 230, Less direct approaches such as flagging certain transactions (reportable transactions) with tax shelter potential for particular focus are noted along with their limitations as is the role of oral tax planning advice. Finally, the article discusses how combining more than one approach (such as retaining the accuracy standard of the covered opinion rules, UTP filing requirements, and competency testing) might be useful in regulating the quality of tax planning advice, but concludes that a magic IRS bullet for monitoring and regulating the quality of tax planning advice has yet to be invented. However, the article notes that reducing the ability of taxpayers to rely on the advice of tax advisors to avoid penalties might force taxpayers to hold their advisors to account through malpractice litigation to a degree that the Service will never be able to do.

Keywords: Tax, advisors, penalties, regulation, taxpayer, tax shelter, tax planning, regulate, IRS, filing requirements, competency testing, covered opinion rules

JEL Classification: K00, K34, H71, A00, B00, D6, H2

Suggested Citation:

Lang, Michael B., Can the IRS Effectively Regulate Tax Planning Advice? (December 19, 2013). Chapman University Law Research Paper No. 13-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2370183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2370183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Successful assertion of this defense is subject to additional requirements in some circumstances, such as when a reportable transaction is involved, but these variations are not relevant at this point in the discussion
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 6664 - 6668
Crossref
Id
Factors include the taxpayer's education, sophistication and business experience, all pertinent facts and circumstances, whether the advice is based on unreasonable assumptions or unreasonably relies on representations, statements, findings or agreements of the taxpayer or others
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 6664 - 6668
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,160
RANK
420,621
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies