Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Factors Present in Financial Reporting Standards Leading to Manipulate True & Fair View of an Entity's Financial Statements

113 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2013

Waqas Ahmed

Advance Cranes; University of Central Punjab

Date Written: December 28, 2013

Abstract

Users of financial statements range from small investor to government all have diffident interest in the financial position and performance of the entity. Government uses the financial statement of the companies to estimate the tax liability on the profits. Authorities also need these statements to ensure the compliance with certain laws and regulations. Financial institutions like bank and others in financial markets demand from companies financial statements to assess the liquidity and value of the companies to extend credits facilities. Investors need to assess the past and future growth aspect and earning of the company to decide whether or not they should invest in the entity.

Users of financial statements use the financial information presented by the management of the company. This information may be biased to achieve certain objective by the management like a constant profits history or earning history to attract new investment for future prospect of the entity or to obtain new credit facility from a financial institution. Users require such financial information which reflects a true picture of the financial position and performance of the entity to make their economic decision.

The understanding of how financial statements are prepared and what information it depicts are important for a user of financial statement. The Framework for preparation and presentation of financial statement describes the fundamental assumptions and underlie characteristics of financial statement that should be present to ensure that these statements present the financial position and performance of the entity fairly. The concept of true & fair view is associated with application of Financial Reporting Standards and use of conceptual framework while preparing the financial statements. Under different circumstances either caused by the environment external or management objectives internal, financial information has been manipulated with the help of Financial Reporting Standards. It has been done to have such financial statements which were in accordance with the objective of management and to obtain such results which were desired. The basic principal of preparation and presentation of financial statements, to give users of the financial statements such financial information which helps them in making effective and efficient economic decisions, has been compromised. The objective of this study was to analyze such factors present in Financial Reporting Standards that causes deviation from true & fair view concept.

Suggested Citation:

Ahmed, Waqas, Analysis of Factors Present in Financial Reporting Standards Leading to Manipulate True & Fair View of an Entity's Financial Statements (December 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2372505 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2372505
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
Assets & Liabilities Investment at book value 11 , volume 709
Total Assets at book value 13 , volume 639 Posted: 0957
Shareholder's equity 10 , volume 846
D Bibliography Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A True and Fair View of the Priciples/Rules Debates
Abacus , volume 42 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,507
RANK
225,977
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies