Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Errors: Evidence from the Distributional Properties of Financial Statement Numbers

Review of Accounting Studies, December 2015, Volume 20, Issue 4, pp 1540-1593

76 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2014 Last revised: 10 Dec 2015

Dan Amiram

Tel Aviv University - Coller School of Management

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Ethan Rouen

Harvard Business School

Date Written: August 2, 2015

Abstract

Motivated by methods used to evaluate the quality of data, we create a novel firm-year measure to estimate the level of error in financial statements. The measure, which has several conceptual and statistical advantages over available alternatives, assesses the extent to which features of the distribution of a firm’s financial statement numbers diverge from a theoretical distribution posited by Benford’s Law. After providing intuition for the theory underlying the measure, we use numerical methods to demonstrate that certain error types in financial statement numbers increase the deviation from the theoretical distribution. We corroborate the numerical analysis with simulation analysis that reveals that the introduction of errors to reported revenue also increases the deviation. We then provide empirical evidence that the measure captures financial statement data quality. We first show the measure’s association with commonly used measures of accruals-based earnings management and earnings manipulation. Next, we demonstrate that i) restated financial statements more closely conform to Benford’s Law than the misstated versions in the same firm-year and ii) as divergence from Benford’s Law increases, earnings persistence decreases. Finally, we show that our measure predicts material misstatements as identified by SEC Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs) and can be used as a leading indicator to identify misstatements.

Keywords: Benford’s Law, Financial Statements Errors, Accounting Quality, Earnings Management

Suggested Citation:

Amiram, Dan and Bozanic, Zahn and Rouen, Ethan, Financial Statement Errors: Evidence from the Distributional Properties of Financial Statement Numbers (August 2, 2015). Review of Accounting Studies, December 2015, Volume 20, Issue 4, pp 1540-1593, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2374093 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2374093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Beneish
The Detection of Earnings Manipulation
Financial Analyst Journal , volume 55 , p. 24 - 36 Posted: 1999
Crossref
F Benford
The Law of Anomalous Numbers
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , volume 78 , p. 551 - 572 Posted: 1938
F Li
Annual Report Readability, Current Earnings, and Earnings Persistence
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 221 - 247 Posted: 2008
Crossref
F Mckenna
Is the SEC's Ponzi Crusade Enabling Companies to Cook the Books, Enron-Style
Forbes Posted: 2012-10-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
27,197
RANK
6,228
36 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies