Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decision-Useful Asset Measurement from a Business Valuation Perspective

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

32 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2014 Last revised: 13 Mar 2019

Christine Botosan

Financial Accounting Standards Board

Adrienna A. Huffman

The Brattle Group

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

This commentary proposes an approach to asset measurement rooted in business valuation theory and practice. In the context of a business valuation, investors’ information needs and the asset measurement investors find useful vary with the manner in which the assets are expected to realize value for the firm. After reviewing arguments made in economic and accounting theory, accounting research, accounting standards, and practitioner and business valuation literature, we conclude that for in-exchange assets, investors need to determine the value expected to be realized in exchange. Exit price in a hypothetical market exchange (i.e. fair value) less expected costs to sell provides investors with decision-useful information in this regard; replacement cost and historical cost do not. For in-use assets investors require information useful in forecasting cash flows generated by using such assets in combination. Based on arguments and data presented in the aforementioned literature, we conclude that historical cost generally provides investors with decision-useful information for forecasting purposes; fair value does not. In addition, replacement cost can provide decision-useful information provided holding gains and losses are separately disclosed, but its decision-usefulness can be constrained by verifiability concerns.

Keywords: Asset measurement; Business valuation; Decision-useful financial reporting information; Value-in-use; Value-in-exchange; Conceptual framework

Suggested Citation:

Botosan, Christine and Huffman, Adrienna A., Decision-Useful Asset Measurement from a Business Valuation Perspective (September 1, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2376854 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2376854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
D Aboody , M Barth , R Kasnik
Revaluations of fixed assets and future firm performance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 26 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 149 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
A S Ahmed , C Takeda
Stock market valuation of gains and losses on commercial banks investment securities: An empirical analysis
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J Altamuro , H Zhang
The financial reporting of fair value based on managerial inputs versus market inputs: evidence from mortgage servicing rights
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 18 , issue 3 , p. 833 - 858 Posted: 2013
Crossref
AICPA). 1994. Special Committee on Financial Reporting: Improving business reporting -A customer focus
AICPA: Jersey City
Load more
4 Citations
Richard M. Frankel , S.P. Kothari , Luo Zuo
The Economics of Accounting
Oxford University Press, Forthcoming · 44 Pages · Posted: 6 May 2018 · Last revised: 22 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 4,665
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Margaret H. Christ , Scott A. Emett , Scott L. Summers , David A. Wood
Prepare for Takeoff: Improving Asset Measurement and Audit Quality with Drone-Enabled Inventory Audit Procedures
Review of Accounting Studies · 38 Pages · Posted: 7 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 26 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1,840
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard M. Frankel , S.P. Kothari , Luo Zuo
Economics of Accounting Earnings
217 Pages · Posted: 3 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 12 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 381
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Fabio Moraes da Costa , Carol Liu , Regina Rosa , Samuel L. Tiras
The Effects of Fair Value on the Matching of Revenues and Expenses: The Case of Asset Revaluations
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming · 35 Pages · Posted: 1 May 2020 · Last revised: 8 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 197
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
651
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,141
RANK
92,942
4 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies