Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Work Overload and Turnover Intention of Junior Auditors in Greater Jakarta, Indonesia

The South East Asian Journal of Management, 9(2), 108-124, 2015

Partially presented in The 8th International Conference on Business and Management Research, Seoul, South Korea, 2013

17 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2014 Last revised: 1 Dec 2015

Andika Pradana

University of Indonesia (UI) - Department of Management

Imam Salehudin

University of Indonesia (UI) - Department of Management; University of Indonesia (UI) - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: October 31, 2015

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze how work overload influences turnover intentions of newly hired public accountants. Job satisfaction, work related stress and work life conflicts are used as mediating variable between work overload and turnover intention. This study employed 141 auditors from several accounting firms operating in the Greater Jakarta region. Six proposed hypotheses was tested using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). Results showed that work overload has significant effect in increasing turnover intention through both job satisfaction and work related stress. Contrarily, work overload does not influence turnover intention through work life balance. This may be due to the nature of the respondents, in which a majority of the newly hired accountants employed in this study are unmarried.

Keywords: work overload, turnover intention, job satisfaction, work related stress, work life balance, public accountants, Indonesia

JEL Classification: M12, M49, M54

Suggested Citation:

Pradana, Andika and Salehudin, Imam, Work Overload and Turnover Intention of Junior Auditors in Greater Jakarta, Indonesia (October 31, 2015). The South East Asian Journal of Management, 9(2), 108-124, 2015, Partially presented in The 8th International Conference on Business and Management Research, Seoul, South Korea, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2376063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M K Ahuja , K M Chudoba , C J Kacmar , D H Mcknight , J F George
IT road warriors: Balancing work-family conflict, job autonomy, and work overload to mitigate turnover intentions
MIS Quarterly , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D G Allen , P C Bryant , J M Vardaman
Retaining talent: Replacing misconceptions with evidence-based strategies
The Academy of Management Perspectives , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 48 - 64 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A B Bakker , E Demerouti , M C Euwema
Job resources buffer the impact of job demands on burnout
Journal of Occupational Health Psychology , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 170 - 180 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A B Bakker , E Demerouti , W B Schaufeli
Dual process at work in a call centre: An application of the job demands-resources model
European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology , volume 12 , issue 4 , p. 393 - 417 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,617
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,291
RANK
25,907
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies