Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Transparency and Reform: Dodd-Frank, IFRS, and XBRL

22 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2014 Last revised: 5 Feb 2014

David Blau

George Mason University

Date Written: November 11, 2013

Abstract

The SEC has proved it is difficult for a regulatory body to keep up with financial innovation. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) are designed to require adherence only to those transaction types specifically named in regulation. While International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) address this by enabling more abstract, principles-based regulatory compliance, they also allow as a consequence for more management manipulation of earnings, and have proven logistically and politically unlikely to be successfully integrated with GAAP in the US. Dodd-Frank attempts to adjust the regulatory framework after the fact, but does nothing to address the potential for capture, or the process of information digestion needed for accurate regulation.

Regulatory capture is more likely and more likely to be dominant in a traditionally self-regulated, highly-skilled market, which perfectly describes the market for accounting and financial information. Kenneth Button noted in an analysis of air transport regulation that, "The regulatory body had a vested interest in avoiding excessive confrontation. The industry had control over cost information, and there was no incentive to keep costs down when any increase could be passed on to customers." In the case of the accounting industry (and accordingly, the industry for dissemination of accurate and timely financial accounting information), these cost increases could be passed to consumers initially indirectly through encouraging investment in overvalued securities, and later directly through bailouts. Button continues: "Combating this was difficult for the authorities who, in any case, had minimal incentive to be too robust in their application of the rules because the appearance of high complexity (or 'really tough' reform, in the case of Dodd-Frank) justified larger bureaucracies."

The central question is how to enable regulators to regulate efficiently and effectively. How can they have real-time access to transparent financial data, cheaply, while making that data available to the entire public, including those lacking technical backgrounds in accounting, finance, or information technology? Open government data in this area is critical to educated and active democratic participation, and will help to counter corruption. The answer lies in decreasing the costs of obtaining and providing accurate and timely financial information, to provide transparency into the financial positions of not just financial institutions, but all publicly-traded companies, and the regulatory agencies themselves. How can the US government best promote democratic accountability, critical to competitiveness and the public trust required for a democratic system to function? The answer is Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL), a semantic-web based technology for financial data that could provide infinitely more accurate financial reporting and audit for private firms and government agencies alike.

Keywords: Dodd-frank, XBRL, IFRS, GAAP, AICPA, PCAOB, Sarbanes-Oxley, financial crisis, rating agencies, semantic web, audit, auditing, yellow book

Suggested Citation:

Blau, David, Financial Transparency and Reform: Dodd-Frank, IFRS, and XBRL (November 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2377641 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2377641
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,585
RANK
158,949
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies