Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Soft Side of Hard Controls: A Control Coding Theory

14 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2020

Muel Kaptein

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Rotterdam School of Management (RSM)

Hein-Jan Vink

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Date Written: January 13, 2014

Abstract

Controls can have positive or increasingly negative effects on the behavior of employees. In this article we develop a theory to explain these effects. Central to this is the way employees interpret the management intentions in applying control measures. Since control measures reduce employee autonomy, there is a risk that employees either put too much faith in the measures or grow to mistrust them. Three mechanisms are presented for excessive trust and mistrust.

Keywords: control, culture, management, audit

Suggested Citation:

Kaptein, Muel and Vink, Hein-Jan, The Soft Side of Hard Controls: A Control Coding Theory (January 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2378437 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2378437
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
P S Adler , B Borys
Two types of bureaucracy: Enabling and coercive, Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 41 , p. 61 - 89 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R N Anthony
Planning and Control Systems: Framework for analysis Posted: 1965
J L Arches
Social structure, burnout, and job satisfaction
Social Work , volume 36 , p. 202 - 206 Posted: 1991
Crossref
J G Birnberg , L Turopolec , S M Young
The organizational context of accounting. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 8 , p. 111 - 129 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
754
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,107
RANK
76,917
2 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies