Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Audit Firm Membership in Associations, Networks, and Alliances: Implications for Audit Quality and Audit Fees

The Accounting Review, Vol. 91, No. 3, 2016

Posted: 17 Jan 2014 Last revised: 18 May 2016

Kenneth L. Bills

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Lauren M. Cunningham

University of Tennessee - Haslam College of Business

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Date Written: July 20, 2015

Abstract

In this study, we examine the benefits of membership in an accounting firm association, network, or alliance (collectively referred to as ‘an association’). Associations provide member accounting firms with numerous benefits, including access to the expertise of professionals from other independent member firms, joint conferences and technical trainings, assistance in dealing with staffing and geographic limitations, and the ability to use the association name in marketing materials. We expect these benefits to result in higher quality audits and higher audit fees (or audit fee premiums). Using hand-collected data on association membership, we find that association member firms conduct higher quality audits than nonmember firms, where audit quality is proxied for by fewer Public Company Accounting Oversight Board inspection deficiencies and fewer financial statement misstatements, as well as less extreme absolute discretionary accruals and lower positive discretionary accruals. We also find that audit fees are higher for clients of member firms than for clients of nonmember firms, suggesting that clients are willing to pay an audit fee premium to engage association member audit firms. Finally, we find that member firm audits are of similar quality to a size-matched sample of Big 4 audits, but member firm clients pay lower fee premiums than do Big 4 clients. Our inferences are robust to the use of company size-matched control samples, audit firm size-matched control samples, propensity score matching, two-stage least squares regression, and to analyses that consider changes in association membership. Our findings should be of interest to regulators because they suggest that association membership assists small audit firms in overcoming barriers to auditing larger audit clients. In addition, our findings should be informative to audit committees when making auditor selection decisions, and to investors and accounting researchers interested in the relation between audit firm type and audit quality.

Keywords: associations, networks, small audit firms, audit quality, audit fees

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bills, Kenneth L. and Cunningham, Lauren M. and Myers, Linda A., Small Audit Firm Membership in Associations, Networks, and Alliances: Implications for Audit Quality and Audit Fees (July 20, 2015). The Accounting Review, Vol. 91, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2379678 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2379678
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,271
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies