Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Recent Global Evolution of SME Accounting. An Analysis of the Role of EFRAG in the Perspective of the European Union

20 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2014

Valerio Pieri

University of Rome III - Department of Business Studies

Date Written: December 20, 2013

Abstract

In this paper, it was considered appropriate to use the occasion of the current phase of great changes in SME accounting in Europe to analyse the EFRAG’s main contributions to the evolution in progress. Following a mainly chronological order, the second section provides a brief summary of the key phases of the IASB’s drafting, implementation and review processes for IFRS for SMEs, highlighting EFRAG’s dual role of proactive contributor to the IASB and of technical adviser to the European Commission. The third section focuses on analysis of the role played by EFRAG during the EU accounting directives’ review process. The final section offers some concluding remarks on the role of EFRAG and on the possible evolution of EU governance in the field of accounting and financial reporting.

Keywords: Financial Reporting, SMEs Accounting, IFRS for SMEs, EFRAG, Accounting Directive

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pieri, Valerio, The Recent Global Evolution of SME Accounting. An Analysis of the Role of EFRAG in the Perspective of the European Union (December 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2381490 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2381490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Abela , A Mora
Understanding the Consequences of Accounting Standards in Europe: The Role of EFRAG
Europe , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 147 - 170 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Financial Reporting Framework for Small-and Medium-Sized Entities
AICPA Posted: 2013
C R Baker , E M Barbu
Trends in research on international accounting harmonization
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 42 , issue 3 , p. 272 - 304 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Botzen
The Politics of Accounting Regulation Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
329
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
RANK
209,542
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies