Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fortuitous Victims: Some Tax Law Consequences of Ponzi Schemes

46 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2014

Sas Tullo

York University, Osgoode Hall Law School

Jackson Taylor

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: August 28, 2013

Abstract

In this paper the authors examine the tax consequences of Ponzi schemes for innocent investor-victims. They use the decisions of the Tax Court of Canada and The Federal Court of Appeal in Johnson v. The Queen as a focus of discussion. Their discussion as to the taxability and deductibility of gains and losses for victims of Ponzi schemes draws on the source doctrine of Income, contract law principles, and the sham and ineffective transactions doctrines. The paper concludes that a Ponzi scheme is a source of income for victims, and that winners ought to recognize net gains on account of income and net losses on account of capital. The paper’s discussion of the investigative obligations of taxpayers is grounded in considerations of reassessments beyond the normal reassessment period and liability for penalties in the Ponzi context. The paper concludes that a contextual approach to these two issues is required considering the fraudulent nature and inherent information imbalance of Ponzi schemes.

Keywords: Income Tax; Source of Income; Fraud; Ponzi Scheme

Suggested Citation:

Tullo, Sas and Taylor, Jackson, Fortuitous Victims: Some Tax Law Consequences of Ponzi Schemes (August 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2381620 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2381620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,415
RANK
221,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies