Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legitimacy of Global Accounting Standards in the Wake of the Financial Crisis

31 Pages Posted: 22 Jan 2014

Masatsugu Sanada

Kyoto Tachibana University

Masaki Kusano

Kyoto University

Date Written: January 21, 2014

Abstract

This study examines and clarifies the legitimacy of the global accounting standard setting mechanism and exposes the politicization of accounting regulation. In particular, we investigate the legitimation crises suffered by the IASB and IFRS in recent times and assess their restoration processes during the financial crisis by using the analytical framework proposed by Tamm Hallström (2004). We find that the IASB decoupled its normal due process in order to retain the endorsement of the EU and avoid a further carve-out. To meet concerns about the IASB’s governance from the U.S. and other non-European countries, the IASB established the Monitoring Board as a compromise to ease tension between independence and accountability. We also find that the IASB systematically prioritized the needs of the EU, its biggest customer.

Keywords: Fair value accounting, Financial crisis, Global accounting standards, Legitimacy, Reflexivity

JEL Classification: G18, G38, L50, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sanada, Masatsugu and Kusano, Masaki, The Legitimacy of Global Accounting Standards in the Wake of the Financial Crisis (January 21, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2382911 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2382911
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
G Ahrne , N Brunsson
Meta-organization Posted: 2008
Re: File Number 4-573-SEC Study of Mark to Market Accounting
American Bankers Association Posted: 2008-11-13
American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA's FASC)
Accounting Horizon , issue 13 , p. 443 - 452 Posted: 1999
P André , A Cazanvan-Jeny , W Dick , C Richard , P Walton
Fair value accounting and the banking crisis in 2008: Shooting the messenger
Accounting in Europe , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 24 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,827
RANK
281,840
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies