Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why You Should Be Alarmed by the ADM FCPA Enforcement Action

White Collar Crime Report, Vol 2., 2014

5 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2014

Mike Koehler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 24, 2014

Abstract

Like all statutes, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has specific elements that must be met in order for there to be a violation. However, with increasing frequency in this new era of FCPA enforcement, it appears that the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission have transformed FCPA enforcement into a free-for-all in which any conduct the enforcement agencies find objectionable is fair game to extract a multimillion-dollar settlement from a risk-averse corporation. A case in point is the recent $54 million FCPA enforcement action against Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) and related entities.

After discussing the principal features of this enforcement action - namely that ADM and its shareholders were victims of a corrupt Ukraine government - this article highlights why anyone who values the rule of law should be alarmed by the ADM enforcement action.

Keywords: FCPA, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

Suggested Citation:

Koehler, Mike, Why You Should Be Alarmed by the ADM FCPA Enforcement Action (January 24, 2014). White Collar Crime Report, Vol 2., 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383938
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Llp Debevoise &amp; Plimpton , Fcpa Update
Do FCPA Remedies Follow FCPA Wrongs? ''Disgorgement'' in Internal Controls and Books and Records Cases Posted: 2011-08
Nathan Vardi
The Bribery Racket Posted: 2010-06-07
Fcpa Professor
Former DOJ FCPA Chief Supports FCPA Compliance Defense Posted: 2011-10-04
Fcpa Professor
Add Alberto Gonzales To The List Of Former High-Ranking DOJ Officials Who Support An FCPA Compliance Defense Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
834
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,341
RANK
67,241
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies