Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing and MNCs: Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) and Advance Pricing Arrangement (APA) to Facilitate FDI and Reduce Litigation in India

Emerging Paradigms in Corporate Finance and Regulatory Framework, Eds. Prag Rijwani and Neeraj Amarnani, ISBN: 978-81-923049-3-9, Print Quick, Institute of Management, Nirma University, Ahmedabad, Jan. 2014, pp. 355-367.

15 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2014

Pawan K. Chugan

Nirma University - Institute of Management; AIIM - Ahmedabad; SPM - PDPU

Date Written: January 2014

Abstract

Overseas investors’ confidence is an important factor that attracts FDI. The tax and regulatory policy in the respective countries can either be a major attraction or repulsion, as far as investor sentiment is concerned. In India, this issue has had many references in the literature. To bypass the laws, MNCs do resort to malpractices. However, the introduction of the Advance Pricing Arrangement (APA) and the Safe Harbour rules (SHR) are the right steps to control the abuse of international transfer pricing. There is always a tug of war between tax authorities and MNCs in this regard. Due to this, the confidence of overseas investors does decline.

Transfer pricing is between related parties/entities, and it measures what they charge each other in their cross-border transfers. In recent times, APA and SHR are emerging as the two most efficient ways of reducing litigation in the area of transfer pricing. The paper also attempts to highlight the salient features of Indian Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) announced recently, states differences between APA and SHR. Further, the implications of these rules in the Indian context are discussed. Finally, the paper provides suggestions on how these tax rules can be improved and the key issues may be resolved to contribute country’s economic growth and development by attracting more FDI and reducing litigations.

Keywords: Foreign Direct Investment, Transfer pricing, Investors' Confidence, International Taxation, Advance Pricing Arrangement, Rangachary Committee, Safe Harbour Rules, Transfer Pricing Abuse, MNCs

JEL Classification: E62, F21, F2, F23, H2, H26, H32, H87

Suggested Citation:

Chugan, Pawan Kumar, Transfer Pricing and MNCs: Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) and Advance Pricing Arrangement (APA) to Facilitate FDI and Reduce Litigation in India (January 2014). Emerging Paradigms in Corporate Finance and Regulatory Framework, Eds. Prag Rijwani and Neeraj Amarnani, ISBN: 978-81-923049-3-9, Print Quick, Institute of Management, Nirma University, Ahmedabad, Jan. 2014, pp. 355-367. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2383269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C P Chandrashekhar , P Purkayastha
Transfer Pricing in Indian Drug Industry: An Estimates and its Implications
Social Scientist , p. 3 - 10 Posted: 1982-01
Crossref
Pawan Chugan , Kumar
International Technology Transfer Posted: 1999
Pawan K Chugan
International Transfer Pricing, Taxation and Need for Advance Pricing Arrangement
Pravartak, the Journal of Insurance and Management , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 134 - 140 Posted: 2007-01
Chugan Pawan Kumar
Advance Pricing Arrangement, Transfer Pricing and MNCs: The Implications for Foreign Investment in India , p. 382 - 392 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,814
RANK
146,434
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies