Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Setting a Statutory Cap on Auditors’ Liability -- What Method Should Be Used?

10: 1 Rutgers Business Law Review (2013) 56

45 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2014

Nili Karako-Eyal

College of Management (Israel)

Date Written: Febuary 1, 2013

Abstract

The increase in market capitalization of companies over the past decade as well as the rapid growth of international participation in financial markets with a decrease in access to insurance has produced a corresponding dramatic increase in auditors' exposure to liability risk. This enhanced risk and its negative implications have resulted in an international trend intended to limit auditors' liability.

Currently, auditor liability is limited in approximately thirty-three countries. Liability is limited via one or more of the following methods: contractual stipulations; setting a statutory compensation cap; adopting a proportionate liability rule; and permitting association of accountants in a limited liability corporation. Eleven countries out of the thirty-three with limited auditor liability use a statutory cap.

This international trend requires that a number of issues are addressed. What is the appropriate method for setting a cap? What is the appropriate method for applying a cap? What is the desirable level for a cap? These issues have not yet been reviewed in-depth and, therefore, are the center of this study.

The paper has dual purpose: first, to present the considerations that should be addressed in selecting the method for applying and setting a cap. Second, critically analyze the alternative methods for setting and applying the cap. I will review these issues using a pluralist theoretical approach. Economic utility, justice, and fairness considerations comprise the theoretical framework.

Keywords: Auditors’ Liability; Statutory Caps; Methods; Torts

Suggested Citation:

Karako-Eyal, Nili, Setting a Statutory Cap on Auditors’ Liability -- What Method Should Be Used? (Febuary 1, 2013). 10: 1 Rutgers Business Law Review (2013) 56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2385661 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2385661
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Information on the law in Scotland has been submitted to the author by E-mail from the Scottish CPA Association Posted: 2011-09-20
For Example , New Finland , Zealand , South Portugal , South Korea , Sweden Africa
EFFORTS AT TORT REFORM Posted: 2011
Commission of the European Communities, Commission Recommendation Concerning the Limitation of the Civil Liability of Statutory Auditors and Audit Firms Posted: 2008-06-05
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
316
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,393
RANK
219,016
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies