Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Levy of Tax on Services in Jammu and Kashmir: A Contrast with Rest of India

Excise and Customs Reporter, Vol. 201, pp. 4SF-14SF, January 2014

11 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2014

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: January 13, 2014

Abstract

Under the constitutional precincts, the State of Jammu & Kashmir has a special status in so far as the application of Parliamentary laws is concerned. ‘Service Tax’ levied under the provision of Finance Act, 1994 by the Parliament is not applicable to the Jammu & Kashmir and in view of the constitutional scheme the State of Jammu & Kashmir levies its own tax on services. This article examines the relevant constitutional and legal provisions pertaining to the levy of tax on services in the State of Jammu & Kashmir.

This article is divided into four parts. The First part deals with the constitutional provisions relating to levy of Service Tax in India in general making particular reference to the constitutional scheme which enables the Union Parliament to levy tax on services. The Second part, the wake of special constitutional status granted to the State of Jammu & Kashmir and the unique devolution of powers granted to its Legislative Assembly, revisits the constitutional provisions relating to the levy of tax on services in the State of Jammu & Kashmir. The Third part examines the legislative scheme under which the levy of tax on services is actually executed at the ground level in the State of Jammu & Kashmir while the Forth Part makes a comparison of the legislative provisions relating to levy of tax on services in State of Jammu & Kashmir as contrasted with those applicable in the Rest of India.

Upon a comparison of the relevant constitutional and legal provisions it is concluded that the levy of tax on service in the State of Jammu & Kashmir is at significant variance and marks a stark departure with the service tax regime applicable to the rest of India. The unique position which the State of Jammu & Kashmir occupies under the Constitution of India is the prime impetus for the contrasting regimes.

Keywords: Service Tax, Tax on Services, India, Jammu & Kashmir, Legislative Autonomy

JEL Classification: H25, H29, K34, K39, P16

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, Levy of Tax on Services in Jammu and Kashmir: A Contrast with Rest of India (January 13, 2014). Excise and Customs Reporter, Vol. 201, pp. 4SF-14SF, January 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2387276
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
360
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,894
RANK
189,749
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative & Non-U.S. Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies