Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of International Accounting Harmonization

9 Pages Posted: 29 Jan 2014

Darshana Lakmal

Eastern University, Sri Lanka

Date Written: January 29, 2014

Abstract

Harmonization is a process of increasing the compatibility of accounting practices by setting limits on how much they can vary. Harmonized standards are free of logical conflict, and should improve the compatibility of financial information from different countries. Efforts to harmonize accounting standards began even before the creation of the International Accounting Standard Committee (IASC) in 1973. More recently, companies seeking capital outside of their home markets and investors attempting to diversify their investment internationally faced increasing problems resulting from national differences in accounting measurements, disclosures, and auditing. In response, harmonization efforts accelerated during the 1990s. International Accounting harmonization now is one of the most important issues facing accounting standard setters, securities market regulators, stock exchanges, and those who prepare or use financial statements. Efforts to achieve international harmonization have been marked by sharp debates. Should accounting standards be harmonized, made uniform, or less alone? Is it reasonable that less-developed countries adopt the same accounting standards as those used in highly developed countries? This paper aims to address these issues.

Keywords: Harmonization, International Accounting Standards

JEL Classification: F29, M10, N70

Suggested Citation:

Lakmal, Darshana, Impact of International Accounting Harmonization (January 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2387327 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2387327
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
A R Belkaoui
International and Multinational Accounting Posted: 1994
A Bhimani
The role of crisis in reshaping the role of accounting
Journal ofAccounting and Public Policy , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 444 - 454 Posted: 2008
Crossref
S Botzem , S Quack
(N)o limits to Anglo-American accounting?Reconstructing the history of the International Accounting Standards Committee: Areview article. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 988 - 998 Posted: 2009
Crossref
K Camfferman , S Zeff
Financial reporting and global capital markets: Ahistory of the International Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1973
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,628
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,722
RANK
11,965
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies