Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Should Be the Nature and Role of a Revised Conceptual Framework for International Accounting Standards?

24 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2014

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 27, 2014

Abstract

I ask how far we may expect the IASB’s current approach to revising its Conceptual Framework ('CF') — as set out in the recent Discussion Paper on further chapters of the revised Framework — to help overcome difficulties such as those identified by Barth (2013), who sets out the case for the importance, within IASB’s aim in its CF to achieve international comparability in financial statements, of developing improved 'high quality' standards for recognition and measurement. I argue that the unavoidable conceptual and institutional difficulties inherent in comparing economic 'realities' require that the revision of the Framework should be more fundamental than attempting to improve the recognition and measurement elements of the prevailing 'balance-sheet' focused model. Rather than continuing to seek universally applicable answers to provide 'a complete and updated set of concepts to use when it develops or revises IFRS', it should instead focus on highlighting the key questions that IASB needs to state it will consider when setting standards. I comment on possible implications for the future development of accounting internationally, and on future research opportunities, with particular reference to China.

Keywords: comparability, global financial reporting, International Financial Reporting Standards, Conceptual Framework, China

Suggested Citation:

Macve, Richard H., What Should Be the Nature and Role of a Revised Conceptual Framework for International Accounting Standards? (January 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2389306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2389306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 1 - 66 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C S Armstrong , M E Barth , A D Jagolinzer , E J Riedl
Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Ashton , V Beattie , J Broadbent , C Brooks , P Draper , M Ezzamel , D Gwilliam , R Hodgkinson , K Hoskin , P Pope , A Stark
British research in accounting and finance , volume 41 , p. 199 - 207 Posted: 2001
Crossref
K Bae , H Tan , M Welker
International GAAP differences: the impact on foreign analysts
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 593 - 628 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Richard H. Macve
Perspectives From Mainland China, Hong Kong and the UK on the Development of China’s Auditing Firms: Implications and a Research Agenda
Accounting and Business Research, 2020 · 75 Pages · Posted: 24 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 122
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Richard H. Macve
Pacioli’s Lens: A Comment
26 Pages · Posted: 28 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 103
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,466
RANK
160,317
2 Citations
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies