Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turf Wars: Territoriality and the Allocation of Sales and Use Taxes in California

51 Pages Posted: 5 Feb 2014

Kevin Schmitt

Independent

Date Written: February 3, 2014

Abstract

Sales and use tax revenue provides an important source of funding for California’s local governments, particularly its cities. Under the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law, local governments may enact sales and use tax ordinances and contract with the state to manage collection and distribution. The current allocation system, known as the situs-based system, provides for distribution to local government based on the physical location of the retailer. Although such a system has logical appeal, in practice it has proven highly problematic, promoting unproductive competition among local governments for scarce revenue.

Reform of the situs-based allocation process has drawn attention from primarily political and policy-focused sources, but there has been little in the way of legal scholarship addressing these problems. This article aims to fill this gap by analyzing the situs-based system from a legal standpoint, as a complement to existing policy analysis of the issue, emphasizing the central role of territoriality in state and local taxation. First, it provides a background to sales and use taxes in California, with emphasis on federal constitutional limits, theoretical issues with sales and use taxes, and an overview of the Bradley-Burns law. Second, it highlights the range of problems associated with the situs rule. Finally, it examines a range of possible reforms of the system to combat some of these problems.

Keywords: sales tax, California, allocation, situs rule

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Schmitt, Kevin, Turf Wars: Territoriality and the Allocation of Sales and Use Taxes in California (February 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2390418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2390418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Edward A See , Morse
State Taxation and Internet Commerce: Something New Under the Sun?, 30 Creighton L
Rev Posted: 1997
L Kendall , Houghton , Walter Hellerstein
State Taxation of Electronic Commerce: Perspectives on Proposals For Change and Their Constitutionality , volume 9 Posted: 2000
Shane Padgett , Morris
Interstate Commerce and the Future of State Sales and Use Taxes, 54 Ala
L.Rev Posted: 2003
The Beginning of the End to a Tax-Free Internet: Developing an E-Commerce Clause, 28 Cardozo L
Rev Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,540
RANK
766,148
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies