Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 2009 New York Accountancy Law’s Paradoxical Impact on Faculty: Non-CPAs versus Inactive CPAs

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014

6 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2014

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Clemense Ehoff

Central Washington University

Date Written: February 8, 2014

Abstract

This essay was borne out of the personal experience of one of the authors (Fischer), who was an inactive CPA in Maryland for many years and had just accepted a position as an accounting professor at a New York-based college. Upon accepting the offer, Fischer was told that he must not only reactivate his Maryland license, but must also transfer it to New York State. In researching the law, we found that New York indeed requires professors to hold an active NY CPA license if they were previously licensed in any state. On the other hand, individuals who have never been licensed may continue to teach without a license.

Keywords: CPA License, Teaching of Accounting, New York State Law

JEL Classification: H75, I28, K23, M48, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov and Ehoff, Clemense, The 2009 New York Accountancy Law’s Paradoxical Impact on Faculty: Non-CPAs versus Inactive CPAs (February 8, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2392919
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
A K Buchholz , F Kass-Shraibman
A study of accounting students' perception of changes in requirements of Certified Public Accountant (CPA) licensure in New York State
Journal of Business and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 188 Posted: 2011
The Eagles
New York State Education Department's Public Accountancy Law Posted: 1976
D O&apos;leary , L Grumet , J Barry
The long arm of the law: The regulatory reach of New York's accountancy reform
The CPA Journal , volume 79 , issue 10 , p. 16 - 22 Posted: 2009-10
R Roberts , J Kurtenbach
State regulation and professional accounting educational reforms: An empirical test of regulatory capture theory
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 226 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
RANK
834,175
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Employment Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies