Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Planning Opportunities for Individual Net Operating Losses

Journal of Taxation, Volume 119, Number 03, September 2013

23 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2014

John Everett

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Cherie Hennig

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington - Department of Accountancy and Business Law

William A. Raabe

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Blaise Sonnier

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs - College of Business

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

The add-backs, adjustments, and other computations involved for individuals who incur a NOL, as well as the factors to consider in deciding if the carryback should be waived, can appear daunting.

NOLs relate only to business income and deduction items, so an individual taxpayer must separate out the nonbusiness items on the Form 1040 in computing the NOL. The modifications that apply in this process can be complex to derive and apply, even for the experienced tax professional. This article has provided explanations of the rules and illustrations of how they work, including a thorough case study to demonstrate the use of an NOL.

Keywords: tax, individual NOL, carryover, carryback, carryforward, income smoothing, case study

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Everett, John and Hennig, Cherie and Raabe, William A. and Sonnier, Blaise, Tax Planning Opportunities for Individual Net Operating Losses (September 30, 2013). Journal of Taxation, Volume 119, Number 03, September 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2393558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
For the excess nonbusiness expense adjustment, the nonbusiness ordinary deductions are , volume 31
620 total itemized deductions # $6,800 personal casualty loss + $12,000 alimony + $3,000 Keogh retirement contribution). The nonbusiness ordinary income is $9,900 ($4,100 royalty income and $5,800 interest income). Therefore, the add-back adjustment for excess nonbusiness deductions is , volume 21
Exhibit 3 illustrates the results of applying the six modifications to the bottom-line tax loss (NTI) of
Three of the add-back adjustments apply, resulting in a final NOL of $82,400, which may be carried to other tax years as a deduction for AGI , volume 116
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
569
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,875
RANK
110,496
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies