Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DOMA: How Tax Compliance Post Windsor Has Created a Fiscal Time Bomb for Jurisdictions that Deny Same-Sex Marriages

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014

23 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2014

Anthony Masino

East Tennessee State University

Date Written: February 10, 2014

Abstract

During the Summer of 2013, the United States Supreme Court (“the Court”) decided two landmark cases that will have major ramifications on both civil and business matters within the United States for decades. In both cases, United States v. Windsor (“Windsor”) as well as Hollingsworth v. Perry (“Hollingsworth”), the Court was asked to review and question the validity of same-sex marriages at the federal (Windsor) and state (Hollingsworth) level. This article analyzes one aspect of the financial ramifications for jurisdictions that fail to recognize and address same-sex marriage. This potential “fiscal time bomb” will ignite April 15, 2014.

Keywords: DOMA, Same-sex marriage, Supreme Court, Windsor, Tax Compliance, Fiscal, State Government, Federal Government, Constitutional Right, Defense of Marriage Act, Equal Protection Clause, Fourteenth Amendment, Full Faith & Credit Clause

JEL Classification: H2, K2

Suggested Citation:

Masino, Anthony, DOMA: How Tax Compliance Post Windsor Has Created a Fiscal Time Bomb for Jurisdictions that Deny Same-Sex Marriages (February 10, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2393567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,414
RANK
703,106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies