Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Roth Conversions - Using the Recharacterization Option Effectively

Posted: 14 Feb 2014 Last revised: 29 Jul 2014

James Arvesen

Fairleigh Dickinson University

Date Written: February 11, 2014

Abstract

Rex P. Macey pioneered the space in which this paper attempts to add additional insight. His paper was published in Investments & Wealth Monitor, a journal published by the Investment Management Consultants Association (IMCA). The date was the September/October 2010 edition, and the title was Roth Conversions: Take Advantage of the Government's Free Option. We reproduce the major results of that paper, however, we specifically use the Leung and Sircar model discussed on ssrn.com in their paper entitled Implied Volatility of Leveraged ETF Options, specifically equations 1-4.

In the Macey paper, a discussion ensues concerning the advantages of using antithetical positions in the Pro Shares S&P 500 ETF's, specifically SPXU and UPRO. The Leung and Sircar equations 1-4 would have the interest rate r=0 and the expense ratio c=0.95% annually for these example based on discussions with Pro Shares management.

The purpose of this paper is to (1) expand the Macey paper to longer term horizons (specifically 2, 5 and 10 years), (2) introduce the metric of Final Total Account Balance (FTAB) as discussed in Sumutka, Sumutka and Coopersmith in Tax-Efficient Tax Withdrawal Planning Using a Comprehensive Tax Model, published in the April, 2012 edition of the Journal of Financial Planning, and (3) to evaluate the Macey and the new approaches on this metric.

The multi-year analysis is simplified because each year serves as a node on the typical binomial tree. The process is terminated after the 2, 5 and 10 year horizons. This appears to cover the time horizons of most clients of financial planners.

The results suggest that Macey may have been accepting a higher risk level, as well as expense level, suggesting the long-term use of the SPXU and UPRO investment vehicles.

Suggested Citation:

Arvesen, James, Roth Conversions - Using the Recharacterization Option Effectively (February 11, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394308
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Household Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies