Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The First Amendment and the Parsonage Allowance

Tax Notes, Vol. 142, No. 4, Jan. 27, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2014

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: January 27, 2014

Abstract

In this article, Professor Zelinsky criticizes the recent decision of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin in Freedom from Religion Foundation, Inc. v. Lew. In that decision, the District Court held § 107(2) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) unconstitutional under the First Amendment. Code § 107(2) excludes from gross income cash housing allowances furnished to "minister[s] of the gospel."

For three, interrelated reasons, Professor Zelinsky finds the District Court’s opinion in FFRF is unpersuasive. First, § 107 has secular purpose and secular effect. Section 107 manages the entanglement which is inevitable when the modern government decides whether or not to tax the modern church. Moreover, § 107 accommodates the autonomy of religious institutions and actors by declining to tax clerical housing and housing allowances. Section 107 should be understood, not as subsidizing the church, but as separating the church from the state. The economic benefit of tax exemption is a by-product of that separation.

Second, the District Court’s FFRF opinion places too much weight on the Supreme Court’s plurality opinion in Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock while giving short shrift to the Supreme Court’s earlier opinion in Walz v. Tax Commission. A more careful reading of Texas Monthly and Walz indicates that, consistent with the First Amendment, Congress can exempt from taxation churches and religious actors to avoid church-state entanglement and to accommodate the autonomy of religious institutions and actors. That is what § 107 does. Texas Monthly is the Supreme Court’s most recent treatment of the First Amendment status of tax exemptions for religious institutions, but Walz is the more convincing treatment of that status.

Third, the District Court accepts the premise of the Texas Monthly plurality that tax exemptions are always subsidies. Often tax exemptions are subsidies, comparable to direct expenditures. However, in many settings, they are not. In constitutional terms, § 107 is more convincingly perceived, not as a subsidy, but, per Walz, as managing the inevitable entanglement caused by taxation and as accommodating the autonomy of religious institutions and actors. In a world of imperfect choices, § 107 separates rather than subsidizes. The economic benefit of § 107 is a side-effect of that separation.

Keywords: parsonage, parsonage allowance, First Amendment, Walz, Texas Monthly, Freedom from Religion Foundation, tax subsidy

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., The First Amendment and the Parsonage Allowance (January 27, 2014). Tax Notes, Vol. 142, No. 4, Jan. 27, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Id
Id
Crossref
Id
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
636,031
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies