Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Probabilistic Estimation of Passing the Licensure Examination for Accountants

19 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2014

Adrian Tamayo

University of Mindanao - Research and Publication Center

Esterlina Gevera

University of Mindanao - College of Accounting Education

Lord Eddie Aguilar

University of Mindanao - College of Accounting Education

Date Written: February 12, 2014

Abstract

The paper employed a simulation model to determine probability of passing the CPA licensure exam. The predictor variables of the study were GPA, pre-review grade, and the subject clusters of the exam. The study covered periods 2007-2011.

It was noted that the performance of the Accounting Education for the period covered was found to be impressive. Pre-review and the GPA have high statistical influence in passing the board exam. The threshold GPA is 2.2 while 2.4 for the pre-review.

Of the subject clusters in the board exam, accounting problems have the highest impact in the actual board score followed by theory of accounts, management services, practical accounting problems, practical accounting problems and the least yet still bear impact is the business law and taxation.

The collegiate validation exam used as indicator of readiness showed statistical association with the actual exam. A simulated model revealed that the scores of management and services, auditing problems, audit theory, business law and taxation and accounting problems have strong board outcome effects. The theory of accounts and accounting problems showed no statistical significance.

Keywords: Accounting education, intervention measures, maximum likelihood

JEL Classification: C35, C51

Suggested Citation:

Tamayo, Adrian Mernilo and Gevera, Esterlina and Aguilar, Lord Eddie, A Probabilistic Estimation of Passing the Licensure Examination for Accountants (February 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2394997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2394997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J A Anderson
Logistic regression. Handbook of Statistics , p. 169 - 191 Posted: 1982
Victorino Abrugar
How to pass the CPA board exam in the Philippines Posted: 2011
Businesstips , Ph
Posted: 2011-08-20
Crossref
V Bewick , L Cheek , J Ball
Statistics review 14: Logistic regression
Crit Care , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 112 - 118 Posted: 2005
Load more
5 Citations
Adrian Mernilo Tamayo
Graduate Tracer Study and Academic Reputation of University
8 Pages · Posted: 21 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 985
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adrian Mernilo Tamayo
Investigating the Results: A Criminologists Licensure Exam Study
14 Pages · Posted: 12 May 2015 · Downloads: 1,063
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adrian Mernilo Tamayo , Iluminado Quinto
Making Good Design Licensure Exam: An Architecture Licensure Examination Study
11 Pages · Posted: 16 Apr 2014 · Downloads: 202
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Adrian Mernilo Tamayo
Estimating Predictors of the Philippine Licensure Examination for Engineering
9 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2015 · Downloads: 254
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,823
RANK
59,898
5 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies