Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Predisposition of Certified Public Accountants: A Study of Gender Differences

Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 16: 29-56, 2012

42 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2014

Donald Lamar Ariail

Kennesaw State University

Mohammad J. Abdolmohammadi

Bentley University - Department of Accountancy

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Using a sample of 304 Certified Public Accountants (CPAs), this paper investigates gender differences in moral development and personal value preferences of CPAs. We used the Defining Issues Test (DIT) to measure moral development, the Rokeach (1973) Value Survey (RVS) to determine value preferences, and the Musser and Orke (1992) typology to determine value type preferences. The typology analysis indicates that all CPAs in our sample prefer personal values to social values. From an overall ethical predisposition standpoint, males and females are more alike than different; yet, there were a few notable differences. Specifically, males prefer competence values and females have higher preference for moral values. For example, while male CPAs exhibit higher priorities for the competence values of imaginative and logical, female CPAs exhibit higher priority for the moral value of loving. We also find a gender effect for moral development, where female CPAs significantly outscore their male counterparts.

Keywords: moral development, ethics, DIT, personal values, value types, RVS

JEL Classification: J16, M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ariail, Donald Lamar and Abdolmohammadi, Mohammad J. and Smith, Murphy, Ethical Predisposition of Certified Public Accountants: A Study of Gender Differences (2012). Research on Professional Responsibility and Ethics in Accounting, Vol. 16: 29-56, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2395967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
M J Abdolmohammadi , W J Read , D P Scarbrough
Does selectionsocialization help to explain accountants' weak ethical reasoning
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 71 - 81 Posted: 2003
D L Ariail
Personal values, moral development, and their relationship: A study of Certified Public Accountants. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 2005
M Armstrong
Moral development and accounting education
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 5 , p. 27 - 43 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Principles of professional conduct , volume 2 Posted: 2002-06-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
451,566
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Women, Gender & the Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies