Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DIEBOLD and the Not so Beautiful: Transferee Liability Trumps Tax Shelter

11 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2014

Dana L. Mark

Kaye Scholer, LLP

Jeffrey A. Galant

Meltzer, Lippe, Goldstein & Breitstone, LLP

Date Written: February 12, 2014

Abstract

The Second Circuit Court of Appeals, in Diebold v. Commissioner, describes the requirements for finding transferee liability under Section 6901 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, here specifically under New York law, as state law predominates the determination of whether a person will be liable for federal taxes as a transferee. This case involved a so-called “Midco” transaction, whereby the goal was to avoid the corporate level taxes on the disposition of the assets of a C corporation. A sale by the shareholders of their C corporation stock and a sale by the C corporation of its assets were recharacterized as a sale by the C corporation of its assets and then a liquidating distribution of the sale proceeds to the shareholders of the C corporation. This recharacterization allowed the Second Circuit to hold that the C corporation's shareholders had transferee liability under New York law with respect to the tax liability recognized by the C corporation on the sale of its assets. A remand to the Tax Court concerns whether such recharacterization satisfies federal law.

Keywords: fraudulent transfer, transferee liability, Fraudulent Conveyance Act, C corporation, liquidation, Midco transaction, series of transactions, double tax, goodwill amortization

JEL Classification: H2

Suggested Citation:

Mark, Dana L. and Galant, Jeffrey A., DIEBOLD and the Not so Beautiful: Transferee Liability Trumps Tax Shelter (February 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2396972 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2396972
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
All statutory references are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
The IRS considers Midco transactions as "listed transactions" that require registration as a tax shelter Posted: 2001-01-18
Section 1361(a)(2) defines a C corporation as a corporation which is not an S corporation
See Sections 336 and 1001 for corporate level tax. See Sections 301, 302 and 1001 for shareholder level tax
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,639
RANK
753,736
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies