Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee-Friendly Companies and Work-Life Balance: Is There an Impact on Financial Performance and Risk Level?

Journal of Organizational Culture, Communications and Conflict, Forthcoming

21 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2014

Janell L. Blazovich

University of St. Thomas

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Companies and individuals are increasingly concerned about employee-friendly work environments and work-life balance. Past research shows that employee-friendly work environments and particularly work-life balance contribute to employee satisfaction. The present study addresses two important related research questions. First, while employee-friendly companies may have greater worker satisfaction, do employee-friendly companies have superior financial performance? Second, do employee-friendly companies have lower levels of risk? Results of our analysis indicate that employee-friendly companies, compared to other companies, do indeed have better financial performance and lower risk levels. This is an important finding, as it affirms corporate efforts to offer employee-friendly work environments, including facilitating work-life balance for employees. Such efforts pay off, not only with worker satisfaction, as demonstrated in prior studies, but also as shown in this study, with improved company financial performance and risk level.

Keywords: employee-friendly, work-life balance, financial performance, risk

JEL Classification: J12, J16, J28, M00, M12, M4, M51

Suggested Citation:

Blazovich, Janell L. and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, Employee-Friendly Companies and Work-Life Balance: Is There an Impact on Financial Performance and Risk Level? (2013). Journal of Organizational Culture, Communications and Conflict, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2396084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Afp
Behavior of Management, Supervisors Critical in Reinforcing Ethics
AFP Website Posted: 2007-07
Aicpa ; Aicpa Website
AICPA, Summit: Career and Life in the Balance Posted: 2003-05-12
Aicpa
Guide to Building a Successful Off-Ramping Program Posted: 2007
E I Altman
Predicting Financial Distress of Companies: Revisiting the Z-Score and Zeta Models Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Janell L. Blazovich , Katherine Taken Smith , Murphy Smith
Mother-Friendly Companies, Work-Life Balance, and Emotional Well-Being: Is there a Relationship to Financial Performance and Risk Level?
International Journal of Work Organisation and Emotion, 2018, 9(4), 303-321 · 32 Pages · Posted: 3 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 217
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sanjukta Brahma , Agyenim Boateng
Board Gender Diversity, CEO Power and Lgbtq-Supportive Corporate Policies
RIBAF-D-24-00517 · 24 Pages · Posted: 26 Jun 2024 · Downloads: 9
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,006
RANK
39,361
2 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies