Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Do We Know About Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A Review of the Empirical Literature

CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4612

41 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2014

Dhammika Dharmapala

UC Berkeley School of Law; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

The issue of tax-motivated income shifting within multinational firms has attracted increasing global attention in recent years. It is of central importance to many current policy debates, including those related to recent initiatives by the OECD on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) and to proposals for US tax reform in a territorial direction. This paper provides a survey of the empirical literature on tax-motivated income-shifting within multinational firms. Its emphasis is on clarifying what is known about the magnitude of BEPS. It begins by outlining a simple conceptual framework that helps to clarify aspects of governments’ responses to the BEPS phenomenon and the potential role of the OECD initiative. The paper then discusses different empirical approaches to identifying income-shifting, describes existing data sources, and summarizes the findings of the empirical literature. A major theme that emerges from this survey is that in the more recent empirical literature, which uses new and richer sources of data, the estimated magnitude of BEPS is typically much smaller than that found in earlier studies. The paper seeks to provide a framework within which to conceptualize this magnitude and its implications for policy. It concludes by highlighting the importance of existing legal and economic frictions as constraints on BEPS, and discussing possible ways in which future research might model these frictions more precisely.

Keywords: base erosion, profit shifting, multinational firms

JEL Classification: H250

Suggested Citation:

Dharmapala, Dhammika, What Do We Know About Base Erosion and Profit Shifting? A Review of the Empirical Literature (January 31, 2014). CESifo Working Paper Series No. 4612, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2398285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2398285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
W Arulampalam , M Devereux , G Maffini
The Direct Incidence of Corporate Income Tax on Wages
European Economic Review , volume 56 , p. 1038 - 1054 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E J Bartelsman , R M Beetsma
Why Pay More? Corporate Tax Avoidance through Transfer Pricing in OECD countries
Journal of Public Economics , volume 87 , p. 2225 - 2252 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Bertrand , P Mehta , S Mullainathan
Ferreting out Tunneling: An Application to Indian Business Groups
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 117 , p. 121 - 148 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J W Budd , J Konings , M J Slaughter
Wages and International Rent Sharing in Multinational Firms
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 87 , p. 73 - 84 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,609
RANK
4,191
101 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CESifo Working Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies