Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Joint-Audit Regulation Likely to Mitigate the Audit Market Concentration in the Long Run? The French Experience

26 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2014

Lamya Kermiche

Grenoble Ecole de Management

Charles Piot

Univ. Grenoble Alpes; University of Angers - Centre de Recherches Appliquées à la Gestion (CERAG)

Date Written: February 19, 2014

Abstract

Policy makers have considered joint-audits as a solution to mitigate the audit market concentration and the “systemic” risk associated with Big 4 auditors. Using the French system as a relevant joint-audit laboratory, we implement a Markovian analysis to infer the long-term market structure by considering that audit clients chose between different types of joint-audit combinations. Main findings support the view that the French joint-audit system is effective in maintaining market openness, and in mitigating the Big 4 domination in the long run. The “mixed” joint-audit arrangement remains the choice of a majority of audit clients. Also, joint-audits involving two non-Big 4 auditors would outperform those made of two Big 4 auditors, and Mid-Tier auditors seem to play a significant role on that point. Overall, this study supports the European Commission’s (2011) position on the potential benefits of joint-audits in mitigating the market concentration; it also suggests that it might not be necessary to impose “mixed” joint-audits to achieve that objective.

Keywords: joint-auditing, auditor concentration, Markov chain, France

JEL Classification: M42, M48, L51

Suggested Citation:

Kermiche, Lamya and Piot, Charles, Is Joint-Audit Regulation Likely to Mitigate the Audit Market Concentration in the Long Run? The French Experience (February 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2398455 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2398455
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Paul Andre , Géraldine Broye , Christopher K.M. Pong , Alain Schatt
Are Joint Audits Associated with Higher Audit Fees?
Pages: 52 Posted: 12 Apr 2012 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Assemblée Nationale
Journal Officiel de la République Française -Débats parlementaires , p. 485 - 506 Posted: 1984
S Audousset-Coulier
La publication des honoraires d'audit par les sociétés françaises : deux études de déterminants. Les déterminants du caractère volontaire de la publication des honoraires d'audit et les déterminants des honoraires d'audits publiés. Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2008
A Ballas , I Fafaliou
Market shares and concentration in the EU auditing industry: The effects of Andersen's demise
International Advances in Economic Research , volume 14 , p. 485 - 497 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
ڤیان سليمان حمه سعيد , محمد حويش علاوي الشجيري , نوزاد خضر سعيد
تأثير المنافسة في سوق التدقيق على سلوك المستثمرين: دراسة تطبيقية في عينة من مكاتب وشركات التدقيق في البيئة العراقية
Tikrit Journal of Administrative and Economic Sciences , volume 19 , issue 63, 1 , p. 211 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
502
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,849
RANK
129,076
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies