Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maximizing the American Opportunity Credit

2014 JLTR Conference

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

J. Kent Poff

University of North Georgia

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

The calculation of the American Opportunity Credit is based on qualified educational expenses less any scholarship that is excluded from taxable income. It is often in the taxpayer’s interest to decline the exclusion, pay tax and thus receive a larger credit. This paper examines the legal basis for declining to exclude scholarship income and thus increasing the credit.

In Publication 970, the IRS says that the exclusion may be declined, but only when the scholarship may be used for non-qualified expenses, such as room and board. This paper argues that the recipient may decline the exclusion for any scholarship and include amounts used for tuition, fees, etc. because the burden of proof for any exclusion is on the taxpayer. The recipient may simply choose not establish that the scholarship is excluded, have taxable income and thus a larger American Opportunity Credit.

Suggested Citation:

Poff, J. Kent, Maximizing the American Opportunity Credit (February 25, 2014). 2014 JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401185
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,167
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies