Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Avoid Losing a Daubert Challenge: Some Best Practices

2014 JLTR Conference

Posted: 3 Mar 2014

D. Larry Crumbley

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

Christine Cheng

Louisiana State University; The University of Mississippi - Patterson School of Accountancy

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

Accountants often provide litigation services with respect to potential and pending judicial and regulatory disputes. They may be retained as consultants, summary witnesses, expert witnesses, or special masters. While engaged in litigation services, there are many ways for an expert witness to be excluded from the courtroom. Both simple and complex Daubert accounting challenges are becoming frequent as tort costs climb and court suits multiply. Accountants must take the qualification process seriously in order to avoid adversely affecting clients and their personal reputation. Lack of independence, conflicts of interest, side-taking, and result-oriented work are some of the situations to avoid.

Suggested Citation:

Crumbley, D. Larry and Cheng, Christine and Cheng, Christine, Avoid Losing a Daubert Challenge: Some Best Practices (February 25, 2014). 2014 JLTR Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2401193
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies