Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fair Income Tax

FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 14-1

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 669

40 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2014

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: February 28, 2014

Abstract

This article argues that the classic “accretion” Haig-Simons formulation of personal income, namely, an individual’s consumption plus net increases in wealth for the taxable year, not only was not actually advocated by Simons himself, but also is (in part) contrary to fundamental political values and raises unnecessary practical problems. Contrary to what is commonly supposed, consumption is best seen not an independent category of income, but only a deduction-disallowance principle. Likewise, the “accretion” notion of “changes in wealth” - requiring the annual valuation of asset values - is (mostly) impractical, psychologically unacceptable, and contrary to political values. The realization principle - embraced by Simons - is not only convenient but considered to be fundamentally fair.

The problems attending the Haig-Simons income concept, as well as Simons’ goal of designing a tax that serves as the platform for top-down redistribution of material resources, are resolved under an objective ability-to-pay personal income concept. This concept is an internal-to-tax substantive fairness norm derived from the function of taxation as an institution. Because fairness is the driving norm, the tax base must be keyed to the personal economic attributes of individual taxpayers. “Objective ability to pay” refers to material resources (as opposed to satisfactions, utility, or well-being) under the control of the taxpayer that the (federal) government can legitimately tax, considering fundamental political values and institutions. The fair tax based on the objective ability-to-pay concept is not derivative of any meta-theory of social justice or political ideology, but is not incompatible with welfarist and economic efficiency norms, and is perfectly posed to serve as the fulcrum for redistribution (or the absence thereof). Since taxation involves the exaction of cash for government to spend in annual budget cycles, the tax base of individuals must be conceived of as a flow of economic outcomes, as opposed to wealth or endowment.

The fair tax is an income tax. Contrary to the charge of vagueness, the concept of an objective-ability-to-pay personal income dictates the content of a fair income tax with remarkable specificity, and in a way that is comprehensible and user-friendly. Numerous issues frequently disputed (or taken for granted) by tax commentators are covered, including those of imputed income, in-kind income, the personal deductions, the taxable unit, entity taxation, and even international taxation. The fair tax closely resembles existing income taxes, except that the U.S. income tax has misapplied the realization principle when it comes to certain deductions and offsets. Specifically, a fair income tax would abandon accrual accounting, revamp the tax treatment of borrowing, and eliminate depreciation.

The larger aim of this article is legitimize tax fairness as an academic enterprise that should be taken seriously in discussions of tax system design.

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M., The Fair Income Tax (February 28, 2014). FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 14-1, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 669, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2403022 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2403022
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
The insurance company will pay the claimant directly, but this makes no difference for tax purposes
The premium is an "expense" (as opposed to being a capital expenditure), because it provides coverage for a short period of time
The Netting Of Costs Against Income Receipts (Including Damage Recoveries) Produced By Such Costs, Without Barring Congress From Disallowing Such Costs, 27 Va
More elaborate versions of this analysis are found in Joseph M. Dodge , volume 297 , p. 339 - 50 Posted: 2007
???; Jeffrey Halperin , Kahn
Justifying the Exclusion of Insurance , volume 125 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,235
RANK
201,537
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies