Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-Implementation Reviews for IASB and FASB Standards: A Comparison of the Process and Findings for the Operating Segments Standards

Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe

43 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2014

Rucsandra Moldovan

John Molson School of Business, Concordia University

Date Written: March 3, 2014

Abstract

Focus/Research Question: The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) have recently completed post-implementation reviews (PIRs) for their converged standards on operating segments IFRS 8 and SFAS 131. The two accounting bodies use PIRs as an additional standard assessment mechanism. This paper (1) provides an overview of the main differences and similarities between the two PIR processes, and (2) compares the findings of the PIRs on the operating segment standards supplemented with insights from a survey of the segment information notes of a sample of STOXX Europe 600 companies.

Research Findings/Insights: There are differences in the way the IASB and the FAF set the specific PIR objectives and in how they conduct the information gathering phase (i.e., the IASB issues a request for comment letters). For the IFRS 8 and SFAS 131 PIRs these differences meant that the FAF focused more narrowly on how SFAS 131 performs compared to the previous standard, while the IASB aimed to more broadly assess constituents’ views on whether IFRS 8 works well in practice.

Theoretical/Academic Implications: This paper informs the academic community on the differences and similarities between the IASB and FAF PIR processes.

Practitioner/Policy Implications: Comparing the PIR findings for IFRS 8 and SFAS 131 is warranted given that the two standards are converged and that the IASB and FASB have re-expressed their commitment to keep them substantially converged. Uniform PIR processes could have eased the cooperation in maintaining convergence. Given the different scope of the reviews on IFRS 8 and SFAS 131, standard setters will need to find a common ground on how to proceed and which issues to address further.

Keywords: Segment reporting, post-implementation review, standard assessment, IFRS 8, SFAS 131, IASB, FAF

Suggested Citation:

Moldovan, Rucsandra, Post-Implementation Reviews for IASB and FASB Standards: A Comparison of the Process and Findings for the Operating Segments Standards (March 3, 2014). Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Paul Andre , Andrei Filip , Rucsandra Moldovan
Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality under IFRS 8: Determinants and the Effect on Financial Analysts' Earnings Forecast Errors (formerly titled The Interplay between Segment Disclosure Quantity and Quality)
International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming Pages: 51 Posted: 25 Jul 2014 Last revised: 2 Aug 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Synthèse des réflexions menées par le groupe d'observation de la Commission consultative «Emetteurs» de l'AMF sur les différences entre les normes comptables européennes et américaines et sur l'application des normes IFRS 8 et IAS 36 Posted: 2013
R Balakrishnan , T S Harris , P K Sen
The Predictive Ability of Geographic Segment Disclosures
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 325 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Barker , E Barone , J Birt , A Gaeremynck , A Mcgeachin , J Marton , R Moldovan
, volume 10 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Edith Leung , Arnt Verriest
Does Location Matter for Disclosure? Evidence from Geographic Segments
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Vol. 46, Issue 5-6, pp. 541-568, 2019 · 28 Pages · Posted: 27 May 2020 · Downloads: 22
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,055
RANK
321,490
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies