Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capitalizing Research & Development: Signaling or Earnings Management?

European Accounting Review Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2014 Last revised: 10 Mar 2015

Tami Dinh

University of St. Gallen, Institute of Accounting, Control, Auditing

Helen Kang

UNSW Sydney

Wolfgang Schultze

University of Augsburg

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 15, 2015

Abstract

This paper analyzes the capitalization of Research & Development (R&D) expenditures under IFRS. Discretionary R&D capitalization can be exercised by managers to signal private information on future economic benefits to the market. It can, however, also serve as opportunistic earnings management. We analyze a unique, hand-collected sample of highly R&D intensive German firms reporting under IFRS during 1998-2012. We find that market values are not associated with capitalized R&D for the overall sample, indicating that earnings management may be a concern. We identify firm-years for which R&D capitalization is possibly used for pushing their earnings above a specific threshold (e.g. analysts’ forecasted earnings, prior year’s earnings). Our results show that both the decision to capitalize and how much to capitalize are strongly associated with benchmark beating. Consistently, we find that market values are negatively associated with capitalized R&D for firms who are likely to use capitalization for benchmark beating (about one third of the overall sample). On the other hand, the market values R&D capitalization positively for well-performing firms, for which capitalizing does not matter to beat an earnings benchmark (about half of the overall sample). This finding is robust to controls for endogeneity, various deflators, and different measures for earnings management.

Keywords: Research & Development, Earnings Management, Intangibles, Value Relevance

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dinh, Tami and Kang, Helen Hyon Ju and Schultze, Wolfgang, Capitalizing Research & Development: Signaling or Earnings Management? (February 15, 2015). European Accounting Review Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2404296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2404296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
L Aboody , B Lev
The value relevance of intangibles: The case of software capitalization
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 36 , p. 161 - 191 Posted: 1998
Crossref
T Abrahams , B Sidhu
The role of R&D capitalizations in firm valuation and performance measurement
Australian Journal of Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 183 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K Ahmed , H Falk
The value relevance of management's research and development reporting choice: Evidence from Australia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 264 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Association for Investment Management and Research (AIMR) (1994) An annual review of corporate reporting practices
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,144
RANK
28,449
17 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies