Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Study of Accounting and Islam: The Practice of Pawnshops (Boroh) in Rokan Hilir – Province of Riau

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

19 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2014

Andi Irfan

State Islamic University of Sultan Syarif Kasim Riau - Department of Accounting

Febri Rahmi

State Islamic University of Sultan Syarif Kasim Riau - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 7, 2014

Abstract

Background: The purpose of this research is to find the interpretation of Ar-rahn or “boroh” and its implication of the perspective of marhun and rahin. Informants are from marhun and rahin in Kecamatan Pujud Kabupaten Rokan Hilir.

Method: Data is collected through interviews with informants and analysed by employing phenomenology. The results of this research show that informants often practise Ar-rahn and don't care about the sharia principles are violated.

Conclusion: His findings murtahin utilized by marhun with permission or without the permission of rahin and ignore the maintenance costs. When the Murtahin was sold to pay off debts but the fact murtahin directly into the right marhun without any auction process. Recognition and measurement of pawn transactions occur, the receiver will pledge to hand over money to pawner deal pawner actual harm. Because, as long as the goods have not redeemed the mortgage lien pledge collateral then stuff it into the right receiver pledge to use it. Revenue Service over the lien of the goods obtained from the collateral in the form of garden that are still productive. This is the contradiction with SFAS 107 as pawn collateral items must not be used by the recipient and the recipient's pawn pledge will earn service revenues for pawning goods has not been paid.

Keywords: Ar-Rahn, “Boroh”, Islam and Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Irfan, Andi and Rahmi, Febri, Comparative Study of Accounting and Islam: The Practice of Pawnshops (Boroh) in Rokan Hilir – Province of Riau (March 7, 2014). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2405879
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Al-Fiqhu Al-Islami Wa , Adillatuhu
Al Mawsu
ah Al Fiqhiyyah, Kuwait Ministry of Religious Affairs publication
Al-Mulakhkhash Al-Fiqhi
creation DR. Shalih bin Fauzan Al-Fauzan II/69
Al Wajiz Fi Fiqhis , Syaikh Aziz , Dr
Abdul "Azhim Badawi
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
434,536
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies