Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: New Zealand's General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) - A Triumph of Flexibility Over Certainty.

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 62, No. 1, 2014

18 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2014

Craig Elliffe

University of Auckland - Faculty of Law

Date Written: November 20, 2013

Abstract

The oldest GAAR in the world is a somewhat crude instrument that has been honed to a very sharp edge by the New Zealand Supreme Court. The GAAR in New Zealand is classic evidence that, at least in New Zealand, such broadly worded anti-avoidance provisions are ultimately judge-made law. This is borne out through an analysis of the history of the jurisprudence relating to the GAAR which this article seeks to do.

The consistent problem of the New Zealand GAAR, and perhaps any statutory GAAR, is that it is drafted too broadly to provide certainty of outcomes to taxpayers, revenue officials and the judiciary. There are, of course, reasons why Parliament drafted it widely. Its purpose is to anticipate and defeat the ingenious tax planning of clever people. The process of statutory interpretation of the GAAR in New Zealand has been, and is, fundamentally, one of judges trying to make sense of a provision which on a literal interpretation has never made sense.

That the New Zealand GAAR is predominantly judge-made law also explains, in so far as it is possible, how the events of the last five years have quite significantly changed and developed the New Zealand tax avoidance landscape. This article attempts to explain the recent experience in the light of the features of the New Zealand GAAR.

Keywords: General anti-avoidance rule, GAAR, tax avoidance, judge made law, statutory interpretation, certainty of law, integrity of the tax system

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Elliffe, Craig Macfarlane, Policy Forum: New Zealand's General Anti-Avoidance Rule (GAAR) - A Triumph of Flexibility Over Certainty. (November 20, 2013). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 62, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Kirsty Keating
reform of the general Anti-Avoidance Provision-The Iron Is Hot
New Zealand Tax Planning report Posted: 2011-12
Ibid
Despite the clear authority that the purpose or effect of the arrangement should be determined objectively, in Alesco, supra note 68, the commissioner advanced documents generated by the taxpayer and its tax advisers that refer to the tax savings available under the OCN arrangement as proof of its tax-avoidance purpose
Newton
, p. 454 - 56
Crossref
This is in contrast to the other aspect of Lord Denning's test, which exonerated family and business dealings from the application of gAAr and which the 1974 statute repealed
Load more
1 Citations
David Fernandes , Kerrie Sadiq
A Principled Framework for Assessing General Anti-Avoidance Regimes
[2016] 2 British Tax Review 172-207 · 37 Pages · Posted: 26 Jul 2019 · Last revised: 1 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 156
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
610
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,125
RANK
101,035
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies