Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protecting a Client’s Confidences: Recent Developments in Privileged Communication Between Attorneys and Accountants

Journal of Law and Commerce, Vol. 28, No. 211, 2010

27 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2014

Noah Barsky

Villanova University - School of Business

Anthony H. Catanach

Villanova University - School of Business; The American College

Ilya A. Lipin

PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP

Shelley C. Rhoades-Catanach

Villanova University - School of Business

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The attorney-client privilege is one of the foundations of our jurisprudence. Originally, designed to prevent attorneys from testifying against their clients, the privilege eventually evolved to reflect legal, societal, and financial complexities. This privilege depends on full disclosure and open communication between attorney and the client in order to provide competent and adequate representation. Today, attorneys often require and rely on expert guidance of accountants for various issues pertaining to litigation and transactional work.

This article illustrates how the recent cases of Commissioner v. Comcast Corp. and United States v. Textron affect privileged communications in complex tax and transactional matters between attorneys and accountants retained for the purposes of client representation. The article also offers guidance on how to preserve privilege in communication between attorneys and accountants as waiver of such privilege may have significant and costly implications. At conclusion, unresolved issues pertaining to privileged communication are discussed and solutions are offered.

Keywords: Attorney-client privilege, Tax Workpapers, Work-Product Doctrine, Tax Communications

Suggested Citation:

Barsky, Noah and Catanach, Anthony H. and Lipin, Ilya A. and Rhoades-Catanach, Shelley C., Protecting a Client’s Confidences: Recent Developments in Privileged Communication Between Attorneys and Accountants (2010). Journal of Law and Commerce, Vol. 28, No. 211, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
OF LAW AND COMMERCE , volume 28
Crossref
C Steven , Bennett
Protecting Privileges When Working with Accountants, PRAC. LITIGATOR Posted: 2009-11
Id
Bennett
supra note 184, at 16. 187. Cook, supra note 11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
RANK
856,872
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies