Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Costs-in-Sequence Evaluation Method Applied to Multiproduct Pipelines Transportation Costs Evaluation

15 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2014

José Augusto Morais de Andrade Jr

Faculdade de Administração, Economia e Contabilidade de Ribeirão Preto - FEARP

Liliane Maria Andrade

Universidade Federal de Rondônia - UNIR

Date Written: March 7, 2014

Abstract

The assessment of costs of transport of liquid hydrocarbons through multi-product pipelines is not a trivial task, since it requires the real-time measurement of a series of quantities such as flow, volumes, pumps' energy consumption, et cetera, besides to an evaluation method that takes into account the proper allocation of the pumping costs of lots of different products that are withdrawn from the pipeline running to the storage and distribution terminals along its path. This paper presents the an theoretical implementation of the costs-in-sequence costing method to the evaluation of transportation costs of liquid hydrocarbons through a multi-product pipeline seeking to show: which variables need to be measured in real time and the method used to allocate the pumping costs from different batches products that are withdrawn from the pipeline and stored in the terminals along its path. First, the new costs-in-sequence costing method is presented. After, it is done the modeling and simulation of this multi-product pipeline model. Finally, the results are compared with other available costing methods, so highlighting the possible advantages of this method. In the end, the results are discussed and the future developments, outlined in this research, are shown.

Suggested Citation:

Andrade Jr, José Augusto Morais de and Andrade, Liliane, The New Costs-in-Sequence Evaluation Method Applied to Multiproduct Pipelines Transportation Costs Evaluation (March 7, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2406068 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2406068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,555
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies