Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance and Auditing in Japan

Asia in Extenso, 2005, pp.1-17

17 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2014

Ryuuichiro Kurihama

Aichi University

Date Written: March 1, 2005

Abstract

This paper clarifies the issues and future challenges that Japanese corporations are facing through discussion of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Japan. And it also clarifies the relationship between CSR, corporate governance, and auditing in Japan while it examines the concept of auditing as corporate auditing. In recent years, we see a growing trend toward discussion of CSR. However, CSR varies depending on the country, region, and corporation while the background to discussion about CSR and the issue and future challenges of CSR vary. We need to examine the background to discussion about CSR and the issues and future challenges of CSR in Japan. Thus, I begin by considering the current status of CSR in Japan. Then I argue corporate governance in Japan because it is necessary to ensure the implementation of CSR.

Based on the foregoing discussions, I examine how auditing contributes to reestablishing the mutual trust of corporations and society as well as how auditing must be changed in line with CSR, and present a new analytical framework of auditing as a new view in Japan.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Corporate Governance, Auditing, Japan

Suggested Citation:

Kurihama, Ryuuichiro, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance and Auditing in Japan (March 1, 2005). Asia in Extenso, 2005, pp.1-17, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2407753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
The Commission on Auditor's Responsibility
Conclusions, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
Masahiko Aoki
Information, Incentives and Bargaining in the Japanese Economy Posted: 1988
Crossref
Masahiko Aoki
Towards a Comparative Institutional Analysis Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Boatright
Fiduciary duties and The Shareholder-Management Relation: Or, What's so Special about Shareholder?
Business Ethics Quarterly , volume 4 , issue 4 , p. 393 - 407 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,348
RANK
337,844
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies