Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of State Taxes on Baseball Free Agents

State Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 11, March 18, 2013

Posted: 13 Mar 2014

Gregory G. Geisler

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

Date Written: March 11, 2014

Abstract

Albert Pujols and Mark Buehrle were Major League Baseball free agents following the 2011 baseball season. Ultimately, Pujols signed a 10-year contract with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Calif., totaling $240 million (excluding incentive provisions), and Buehrle signed a four-year contract with the Miami Marlins of Florida totaling $54 million. Both contracts are backloaded. Pujols’s salary for the 2012 season was $12 million, and Buehrle’s was $6 million.

The negotiations that culminated in these contracts present an especially rich setting for examining jurisdictional tax considerations. Pujols’s decision came down to the St. Louis Cardinals or the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Buehrle’s decision came down to the Chicago White Sox or the Miami Marlins. Those four jurisdictions feature vastly different state and local tax treatments, with financial ramifications in the hundreds of thousands of dollars each year. We demonstrate the tax implications of the different tax treatments in the contexts of the contracts of Pujols and Buehrle.

Keywords: state income tax, local income tax, jock tax, Albert Pujols, Mark Buehrle, Sammy Sosa, baseball, free agents

JEL Classification: H24

Suggested Citation:

Geisler, Gregory Gerard and Moehrle, Stephen R., The Effect of State Taxes on Baseball Free Agents (March 11, 2014). State Tax Notes, Vol. 67, No. 11, March 18, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2407534
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,056
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies