Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Study: Transfer Pricing of Intangibles in Russia, US and Current Discussion in the OECD

41 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2014

Grigory Taushkanov

Independent

Date Written: June 28, 2013

Abstract

The paperwork aims at comparing interpretation of the definition of intangibles and ownership determination in order to apply transfer pricing laws and rules in the US, Russia, and particularly the OECD transfer pricing approach.

Transfer pricing of intangibles is a hot issue among OECD members. It is still arguable topic of international taxation because tax legislature of many countries defines intangibles in different ways. Thus it leads double taxation of some multinational companies.

Additionally, a multinational group of companies may use transfer prices transactions for the purpose of tax savings by making them significantly higher or lower in comparison with the same prices of unrelated parties. Moreover, disposition of intangibles has been growing in recent years, and complexity of determination of transactions with intangible implication is difficult to evaluate for the tax purposes.

Keywords: transfer pricing, intangibles, international taxation, tax law

Suggested Citation:

Taushkanov, Grigory, Comparative Study: Transfer Pricing of Intangibles in Russia, US and Current Discussion in the OECD (June 28, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,628
RANK
464,622
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies