Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Between a Rock and a Hard Place: A Path Forward for Using Substantive Analytical Procedures in Auditing Large P&L Accounts: Commentary and Analysis

Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 34, No. 3, 2015

Posted: 15 Mar 2014 Last revised: 30 Jul 2015

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Douglas F. Prawitt

Brigham Young University

Michael S. Drake

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Date Written: August 2015

Abstract

Substantive analytical procedures can be an important and effective audit tool to gather evidence and highlight areas of potential misstatement, and for decades have been one of the common substantive procedures applied to income statement accounts. Recently, however, there is a growing trend for public company auditors to forego substantive analytical procedures on large income statement accounts, such as revenue, due to criticisms from regulatory inspectors that such procedures are not capable of providing useful substantive evidence. In this commentary, we address the concern that discouraging the application of appropriately rigorous substantive analytical procedures may diminish overall audit quality. We consider whether rigorous substantive analytical procedures can be designed to provide useful evidence at moderate and low levels of assurance for large income statement accounts, such as revenue, even when the significant-difference threshold exceeds overall materiality. Such procedures can provide strong evidence that financial statements are free of massive fraud or unintentional misstatement. Further, the moderate or low assurance obtained by such substantive analytical procedures can be combined with assurance provided by other audit procedures to yield high overall assurance. We illustrate one potential approach that may be useful in designing substantive analytical procedures to achieve moderate or low assurance and we explain how our approach is consistent with auditing theory and auditing standards.

Keywords: Substantive analyst procedures, revenue testing, materiality, audit evidence

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Prawitt, Douglas F. and Drake, Michael S., Between a Rock and a Hard Place: A Path Forward for Using Substantive Analytical Procedures in Auditing Large P&L Accounts: Commentary and Analysis (August 2015). Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Vol. 34, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408765
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,149
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies