Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Persistence and Relevance of Accruals: Evidences from the Brazilian Capital Market

19 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2014

Augusto Cezar Silva Filho

Universidade Federal Rural do Semi-Árido

Marcio Andre Veras Machado

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Date Written: March 14, 2014

Abstract

The main objective in this research is to analyze the persistence and relevance of accruals, as well as the existence of the accrual anomaly in the Brazilian capital market. Therefore, this study is conducted by three research hypotheses: (i) the accruals are less persistent than the cash flows in the explanation of future earnings; (ii) the market does not correctly recognize the information contained in the accruals; and (iii) extraordinary gains can be obtained when using the magnitude of the accrual levels as an investment strategy. The population included all non-financial companies traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BMF&BOVESPA) between January 1st 1995 and December 31st 2011. The results indicated that the estimated coefficient of the accrual persistence was lower than the cash flow coefficient, thus sustaining the first research hypothesis. In the second part of the research, it was verified that the market correctly prices the accrual component of earnings, as a positive and statistically significant relation exists between accruals and future stock returns, which was not expected. Finally, the results found in the third hypothesis sustain the non-existence of the accrual anomaly in the Brazilian market, as the hedge portfolios were positive in only five out of 15 years under analysis. The results obtained in this study can encourage the establishment of policies to reduce the information asymmetry, making the improper transfer of wealth to companies with a low earnings quality impossible.

Suggested Citation:

Silva Filho, Augusto Cezar and Machado, Marcio Andre Veras, Persistence and Relevance of Accruals: Evidences from the Brazilian Capital Market (March 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2409398 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2409398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
justified by avoiding the inclusion of data with inflationary distortions that existed in the Brazilian economy until the implementation of the Real Posted: 1995-01
A Ali , L Hwang , M A Trombley
Accruals and future stock returns: tests of the naive investor hypothesis
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 45 - 63 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Y Amihud , H Mendelson
The effects of beta, bid-ask spread, residual risk, and size on stock returns
The Journal of Finance , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 479 - 486 Posted: 1989
Crossref
L Bachelier
Théorie de la spéculation
Annales scientifiques de l'É.N.S , volume 3 , issue 17 , p. 21 - 86 Posted: 1900
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,580
RANK
556,623
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies