Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Convergence to International Accounting Standards in Brazil on The Informational Content of Accounting

17 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2014

Marcelo Alvaro Macedo

PPGCC/UFRJ

Marcio Andre Veras Machado

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Márcia Machado

Federal University of Paraiba (UFPB)

Pedro Henrique Cardoso Mendonça

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ)

Date Written: March 14, 2014

Abstract

This article investigates the impact of the process of convergence to international accounting standards in Brazil on the informational content of accounting, focused on the changes in the main accounting and financial ratios and on the relevance of accounting information. For this purpose, we analyzed publicly traded nonfinancial companies, considering information for 2009, disclosed at the start of 2010 (BRGAAP – partial IFRS) and for the same year, disclosed at the start of 2011 (full IFRS). The purpose of analyzing the data for 2009 was to isolate any other influence found in the accounting statements that did not come from the alteration in accounting standards. The results indicate that the indicators Indebtedness (DEBT), Asset Turnover (AT), Gross Margin (GM), Operating Cash Flow over Total Assets (OPCFA) and Operating Cash Flow over Stockholders’ Equity (OPCFE) are lower in the financial statements prepared according to full IFRS. Analysis of the informational capacity of Net Income by means of regression allowed detecting that Net Income has higher explanatory power of the behavior of stock prices under full IFRS. With respect to the informational content of Stockholders’ Equity, the results indicate no significant change in explanatory power on the behavior of stock prices.

Keywords: IFRS, informational content of accounting, convergence to international accounting standards, accounting ratios

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Macedo, Marcelo Alvaro and Machado, Marcio Andre Veras and Machado, Márcia and Cardoso Mendonça, Pedro Henrique, Impact of Convergence to International Accounting Standards in Brazil on The Informational Content of Accounting (March 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2409399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2409399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
Assaf Neto , A
Estrutura e Análise de Balanços: um enfoque econômico-financeiro Posted: 2006
E M B Baptista
Ganhos em transparência versus novos instrumentos de manipulação: o paradoxo das modificações trazidas pela Lei no 11.638. RAE -Revista de Administração de Empresas , volume 49 , p. 234 - 239 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International accounting standards and accounting quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Bartov , S R Goldberg , M Kim
Comparative Value Relevance among German, U.S., and International Accounting Standards: A German Stock Market Perspective
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Isabel Lourenço , Manuel Castelo Branco , José Dias Curto
Do IFRS Matter in Emerging Countries? An Exploratory Analysis of Brazilian Firms
In Standardization of Financial Reporting and Accounting in Latin American Countries, IGI-Global, USA, 2015 · 29 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2013 · Last revised: 24 Jul 2016 · Downloads: 280
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,289
RANK
322,924
1 Citations
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies