Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Subchapter S Meets Subchapter C

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 67, No. 2, 2014

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 15-36

81 Pages Posted: 18 Mar 2014 Last revised: 1 Dec 2015

Martin J. McMahon, Jr.

University of Florida - Levin College of Law

Daniel L. Simmons

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: March 17, 2014

Abstract

It is often said that “an S corporation is a corporation that is taxed like a partnership.” This statement is incorrect. An S corporation resembles a partnership only in that it generally does not pay income taxes and its income and losses pass through to the shareholders and retain their character as they pass though. Also, like a partnership, basis adjustments to an S corporation shareholder’s stock reflect allocations of income, expense, loss, and distributions. However, no other rules of subchapter K governing partnership taxation apply to S corporations. Most of the rules governing the relationship between an S corporation and its shareholders differ significantly from the rules governing the relationship between a partnership and its partners. In fact, an S corporation and its shareholders are subject to the rules of subchapter C, just like a corporation that has not made an S election, with very few exceptions. This Article highlights some of the major differences between taxation of S corporations and taxation of partnerships and explores in greater detail the intersection of subchapter C with subchapter S with respect to transactional issues, such as formation of the corporation, redemptions, liquidations, and mergers and acquisitions of and by S corporations, as well as similar issues regarding qualified subchapter S subsidiaries (QSubs).

Keywords: Corporate taxation, S corporations

Suggested Citation:

McMahon, Jr., Martin James and Simmons, Daniel L., When Subchapter S Meets Subchapter C (March 17, 2014). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 67, No. 2, 2014, University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 15-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2410325
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Rev
70-240, 1970-1 C.B. 81; see also C.C.A Posted: 2010-08-13
Atlas Tool Co. v. Commissioner, 614 F.2d , volume 860 Posted: 1978
Crossref
American Mfg , Co
, volume 204 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Martin D Ginsburg
Mergers, Acquisitions
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,284
RANK
217,471
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies