Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accountant-Client Privilege in Multidistrict Litigation: Does It Apply?

38 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2014

Kelly Balkin

University of Miami - University of Miami Law Review

Date Written: Feb 10, 2014

Abstract

Analysis of state-created accountant-client privilege laws and their applicability in the pretrial proceedings of cases that are consolidated into one multidistrict litigation action where jurisdictions of original filing have conflicting approaches to the privilege. The privilege is explored under state choice-of-law rules and under the Erie and Byrd doctrines. This paper ultimately concludes that a state-created accountant-client privilege should apply to pretrial proceedings of multidistrict litigation.

Keywords: Multidistrict litigation, accountant-client privilege, choice-of-law, Erie, Byrd, MDL, JPML

Suggested Citation:

Balkin, Kelly, The Accountant-Client Privilege in Multidistrict Litigation: Does It Apply? (Feb 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2411268 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2411268
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
D Richard , C Freer &amp; Thomas , Arthur
Civil Procedure: Symposium: On Shady Grove Orthopedic Associates v. Allstate Insurance: A Collection of "Opinions": The Irrepressible Influence of Byrd , volume 61 Posted: 2010
Id
Amanda Kelly , Blair
A Judicial Solution to the Forum-Selection Clause Enforcement Circuit Split: Giving Erie a Second Chance, 46 GA
L. REV , volume 799 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,112
RANK
759,919
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies