Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reckless Means Reckless: Understanding the EITC Ban

Tax Notes, Vol. 142, No. 8, 2014

Cleveland-Marshall Legal Studies Paper No. 14-266

5 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2014

John Thomas Plecnik

Cleveland State University - Cleveland-Marshall College of Law

Date Written: March 20, 2014

Abstract

Under section 32(k), a little-known subsection introduced to the code by the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, the earned income tax credit is disallowed if a taxpayer improperly claimed that credit in a prior tax year. This disallowance is best known to tax practitioners as the EITC ban. If the improper EITC claim is attributable to "reckless or intentional disregard of rules and regulations," the ban is imposed for a two-year period. The IRS does not recognize a formal definition for reckless or intentional disregard under section 32(k), and it imposes the EITC ban without a clear explanation in nearly 90 percent of cases. This article argues that the legislative history of the EITC ban demonstrates that Congress intended to import to section 32(k) the well-established definition for reckless or intentional disregard from section 6662, which imposes the accuracy-related penalties.

Keywords: earned income tax credit, EITC, earned income tax credit ban, EITC ban, earned income credit, earned income credit ban, two year ban, reckless or intentional disregard, reckless, recklessness, 32(k), 6662, accuracy-related penalties, Internal Revenue Service, IRS, National Taxpayer Advocate, penalty

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Plecnik, John Thomas, Reckless Means Reckless: Understanding the EITC Ban (March 20, 2014). Tax Notes, Vol. 142, No. 8, 2014, Cleveland-Marshall Legal Studies Paper No. 14-266, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2412035
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,093
RANK
298,603
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies