Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Ninety-Five Percent of Them Will Not Be Missed': Recovering the Tax Shelter Limitation Aspect of ERISA

Drexel Law Review, Vol. 6, Issue 2, 2014

Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14-03-05

27 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2014 Last revised: 2 May 2014

Peter J. Wiedenbeck

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law

Date Written: March 21, 2014

Abstract

ERISA is justly hailed as a paramount achievement in labor and social welfare legislation. The worker-protective elements of ERISA get most of the attention. Yet Congress also emphasized that employee benefit plans “substantially affect the revenue of the United States because they are afforded preferential Federal tax treatment” which justified a coordinate declaration of policy, “to protect...the Federal taxing power”. ERISA § 2(a), (c), 29 U.S.C. § 1001(a), (c). The tax-subsidized but largely unregulated regime that preceded ERISA facilitated widespread tax abuse. Reducing wasted revenue by focusing preferential tax treatment on plans providing retirement savings to a broad cross-section of the workforce — not just to the business owners — is the often-overlooked dual objective of ERISA. This article seeks to recover the tax shelter limitation aspect of ERISA. Part II briefly explains the origins of ERISA’s tax controls. Part III surveys ERISA’s accomplishments and limitations in suppressing pension tax shelters. Part IV describes later momentous developments to which ERISA pointed the way.

Keywords: ERISA,employee benefit law, pension plans, qualified retirement plans, tax shelters

Suggested Citation:

Wiedenbeck, Peter J., 'Ninety-Five Percent of Them Will Not Be Missed': Recovering the Tax Shelter Limitation Aspect of ERISA (March 21, 2014). Drexel Law Review, Vol. 6, Issue 2, 2014 , Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 14-03-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2412708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Id
Richard Gephardt and Alvin D. Lurie); accord id , p. 10 - 11
Pickle) ("We must accept as reality that fact that upward of 100,000 plans will have been lost, and we don't know whether it is just ERISA or a combination of circumstances
J.J
Id
See Henry Rose, Panel 1, lines 354-55
47 (statement of Daniel I. Halperin, Tax Legislative Counsel
U S Gen , Office
A preliminary version of this GAO report appears in National Pension Policies: Private Pension Plans: Hearings Before the Subcomm. on Retirement Income and Employment of the H
EFFECT OF THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT ON THE TERMINATION OF SINGLE EMPLOYER DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS , volume 1 Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,802
RANK
592,728
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal History eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies