Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Case-based Introduction to Bank Accounting for Derivatives

9 Pages Posted: 24 Mar 2014 Last revised: 20 Mar 2015

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Michael M. Grayson

CUNY Brooklyn College; Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Date Written: March 23, 2014

Abstract

This short case introduces accounting and finance students and practitioners to bank accounting for derivatives using Goldman Sachs 2013 financial statements as an illustrative case. The technical knowledge assumed is very basic. We begin with the basic accounting equation of assets = liabilities plus equity, or alternatively assets – liabilities = equity. We then proceed to find derivative assets and liabilities on the balance sheet (we need to do some digging to find the balance-sheet accounts containing them). We then proceed to discover that the actual fair values of derivatives assets and liabilities are much larger than those included in the balance sheet. Furthermore, the vast majority of these “fair values” are somewhat subjective Level 2 values. We conclude by examining another source of unrecognized liabilities representing potential payouts from credit derivatives. We summarize by showing the off-balance sheet derivative assets represent 88% of total assets, while off-balance sheet derivative liabilities represent 103% of reported total liabilities.

Keywords: Bank Accounting, Derivatives, Credit Derivatives, Level 2, Fair Values, Maximum Notional Payouts, London Whale

JEL Classification: A22, A23, G20, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov and Grayson, Michael M. and Grayson, Michael M., A Case-based Introduction to Bank Accounting for Derivatives (March 23, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2413096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2413096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Goldman Sachs
10K and Annual Report Posted: 2013
Crossref
Senate Subcommittee
Report on JP Morgan Whale Trades: A Case History of Derivatives Risks and Abuses Posted: 2013-03-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,689
RANK
177,685
2 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies