Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Intellectual Capital Disclosure Among the Greek Listed Companies: Does Sector and Capitalization Matter?

International Journal of Learning and Intellectual Capital, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 146-169

32 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2014 Last revised: 28 Jul 2015

Michail Nerantzidis

University of Thessaly

Date Written: April 6, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the intellectual capital disclosure (hereafter: ICD) among the Greek listed companies and compare this level of disclosure among companies of different sector and capitalisation. For this reason, a content analysis of 49 companies' annual reports was firstly conducted, in order to examine the ICDs frequency per element (by sector and capitalisation). Then, a hypothesis analysis was used to compare the level of ICD among companies of different sector and capitalisation. The findings showed that the most reported accounting category was external (or relational) capital and the second most reported was internal (or structural) capital. Furthermore, this study revealed that the most knowledge-based or the biggest companies have the most ICDs frequency. However, a great effort has been put in, in order to increase transparency, in the way that content analysis is conducted, so that a 'real' benefit on future studies can exist.

Keywords: intellectual capital disclosure, content analysis

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Nerantzidis, Michail, Comparing Intellectual Capital Disclosure Among the Greek Listed Companies: Does Sector and Capitalization Matter? (April 6, 2014). International Journal of Learning and Intellectual Capital, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 146-169, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2414619 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2414619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
I Abeysekera
Intellectual capital disclosure trends: Singapore and Sri Lanka
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 723 - 737 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Abeysekera , J Guthrie
An empirical investigation of annual reporting trends of intellectual capital in Sri Lanka
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , issue 3 , p. 151 - 163 Posted: 2005
Crossref
K A April , P Bosma , D A Deglon
IC measurement and reporting: Establishing a practice in SA mining
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 165 - 180 Posted: 2003
Crossref
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
Through the eyes of management: A study of narrative disclosures, Centre for Business Performance Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,428
RANK
282,998
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies