Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Sustainability Reporting as a Regulatory Mechanism

Forthcoming in D. Cahoy & J. Colburn (eds), Law and the Transition to Business Sustainability. Springer Publishing.

Ross School of Business Working Paper No. 1228

26 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2014

David Hess

The Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: March 2014

Abstract

Sustainability reporting is now a mainstream activity among large, global corporations. The majority of the largest corporations in the United States now produce sustainability reports, and several European countries either mandate corporations to produce some form of sustainability reports or are in serious consideration of such legislation. Although leading standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative have made significant advancements in setting out the types of information that corporations should publicly disclose, mandatory sustainability reports will not work as an effective policy mechanism unless they are placed in a system that can effectively utilize the information and cause corporations to change their policies and practices. This brief essay provides an overview of the current sustainability reporting industry, and sets out some potential breakdown points and possible future developments.

Keywords: corporate social responsibility, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), social reporting, sustainability reporting

JEL Classification: K20, K29, M14

Suggested Citation:

Hess, David, The Future of Sustainability Reporting as a Regulatory Mechanism (March 2014). Forthcoming in D. Cahoy & J. Colburn (eds), Law and the Transition to Business Sustainability. Springer Publishing., Ross School of Business Working Paper No. 1228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2416920 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2416920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
P Bansal , I Clelland
Talking Trash: Legitimacy, Impression Management, and Unsystematic Risk in the Context of the Natural Environment
Academy of Management Journal , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 93 - 103 Posted: 2004
Crossref
K Bondy , J Moon , D Matten
An Institution of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Multi-National Corporations (MNCs): Form and Implications
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 111 , issue 2 , p. 281 - 299 Posted: 2012
Crossref
B Comyns , F Figge , T Hahn , R Barkemeyer
Sustainability reporting: The role of "Search
Credence" information. Accounting Forum , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 231 - 243 Posted: 2013
R G Eccles , M P Krzus
One Report: Integrated Reporting for a Sustainable Strategy Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,150
RANK
174,586
2 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies