Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Recognition

St. Louis University Law Journal, Vol. 58, p. 825, 2014

Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 1409

23 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2014

Barry Cushman

Notre Dame Law School

Date Written: March 27, 2014

Abstract

This article was prepared for the St. Louis University Law Journal’s “Teaching Trusts & Estates” issue. Many law students take a course in Trusts & Estates, but comparatively few enroll in a class devoted to the federal wealth transfer taxes. For most law students, the Trusts & Estates course provides the only opportunity for exposure to some of the basic features of the estate tax, the gift tax, the generation-skipping transfer tax, and some related features of the income tax. The coverage demands of the typical Trusts & Estates course do not allow for intensive discussion of these issues, but there are numerous opportunities to introduce relevant tax considerations while teaching the substantive law of wills and trusts. Using the Dukeminier & Sitkoff casebook as an example, this article explores the opportunities for interstitial recognition of the tax issues often lying just beneath the surface of private law disputes. Seizing the opportunities that these cases present to introduce some basic tax concepts and planning strategies can alert students to simple methods of tax savings and help them to avoid costly potential estate planning errors.

Keywords: wills, trusts, estates, estate tax, gift tax, generation-skipping transfer tax, income tax, teaching

JEL Classification: K11, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cushman, Barry, Tax Recognition (March 27, 2014). St. Louis University Law Journal, Vol. 58, p. 825, 2014, Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 1409, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
I R C See
, p. 2035 - 2077
Crossref
See infra notes 74-75 and accompanying text
Unif See
PROBATE CODE § 2-205 Posted: 2010
Crossref
N Y See , Est
POWERS AND TRUSTS LAW § 5-1.1-A(b Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,707
RANK
538,270
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies