Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unwinding the Ceiling Rule

Virginia Tax Review, 2014 Forthcoming

36 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2014 Last revised: 24 Jul 2014

Leigh Osofsky

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Date Written: March 28, 2014

Abstract

As is widely known, the so-called “ceiling rule,” which applies under the traditional method for section 704(c) allocations, can create the wrong tax result. Specifically, the ceiling rule can result in misallocations of income, gain, loss, and deduction to both a partner contributing property and to the noncontributing partners. Notwithstanding these predictable misallocations, the Treasury Department still permits application of the ceiling rule under section 704(c). This Article challenges longstanding assumptions regarding the operation of the ceiling rule in the context of section 704(c). Historically, Congress and partnership tax experts assumed that the ceiling rule is perfectly unwound on liquidation or sale of a partnership interest. This assumption still operates to some extent today. The assumption glosses over a significantly more complicated reality. This Article closely examines the history of section 704(c) and the interaction between the ceiling rule and the rules regarding sales and liquidations of partnership interests. Doing so reveals that when and to what extent the perfect unwinding assumption holds depends (perhaps to a surprising degree) on (1) a variety of relatively arbitrary facts regarding the assets held by the partnership on liquidation or sale, and (2) the unintended interactions of inordinately complicated partnership tax rules. In reaching this conclusion, this Article displays that the ceiling rule, which has always been part of the section 704(c) regime, is even worse than it is commonly thought to be.

Fully appreciating the extent to which the ceiling rule can perpetuate mistaxation long after the liquidation or sale of a partner’s interest in the partnership is important. As explained in this Article, the ceiling rule creates enormous complexity and planning opportunities that unjustifiably accrue to the well informed. The ceiling rule creates this complexity and these planning opportunities not in order to tax taxpayers appropriately. Instead, when it applies, the ceiling rule creates uncontrovertibly incorrect tax results. The ceiling rule thereby unnecessarily creates a mess of the fundamentally important section 704(c) partnership tax rules governing allocations with respect to contributed property. Despite the mess it makes of the section 704(c) regime, the ceiling rule has remained part of it for decades in part because of the mistaken and oversimplified assumptions regarding the unwinding of the ceiling rule, and the resulting perceptions of the limited impact of the ceiling rule. By debunking these long-held assumptions, this Article displays there is no reasonable justification to continue to retain the ceiling rule.

Suggested Citation:

Osofsky, Leigh, Unwinding the Ceiling Rule (March 28, 2014). Virginia Tax Review, 2014 Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417279
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
To correct distortions created by the ceiling rule, a partnership using the traditional method under paragraph (b) of this section may make reasonable curative allocations to reduce or eliminate disparities between book and tax items of noncontributing partners Posted: 2013
at the time of contribution of $300. The partnership is an equal one-third partnership, in which each of A, B, and C holds a one-third interest in all partnership income, losses, and capital. Based on these facts, $100 in book value from the contributed property will be allocated to each of B and C. They will each be entitled to take depreciation for book purposes of $100 for the contributed property Posted: 2013
Unlike ceiling rule limitations of depreciation or depletion, ceiling rule limitations of gain or loss are attributable to post-contribution changes in value , volume 650
Barksdale Hortenstine , &amp; Gregory , J Marich
An Analysis of the Rules Governing Partnership 132 I.R.C. § 704(c)(1)(C)(i)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,836
RANK
174,586
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies