Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Apportioning State Personal Income Taxes to Eliminate the Double Taxation of Dual Residents - Thoughts Provoked by the Proposed Minnesota Snowbird Tax

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 7, 2014

49 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2014

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: March 28, 2014

Abstract

As a matter of both tax policy and constitutional law, it is time to apportion state personal income taxes to eliminate the double taxation of dual residents. Individuals who, for income tax purposes, are residents are two or more states should be taxed along the lines recently proposed by Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton for “snowbirds”: As to income with respect to which a state has source jurisdiction, that state should tax such income. As to income which two or more states tax only on the basis of residence, such states should apportion, based on the dual resident’s relative presence in each state of residence. This apportioned approach would eliminate the double taxation of dual residents’ income and would comport better with modern patterns of residence and mobility.

While Minnesota’s legislature did not adopt the Dayton proposal, that proposal should provoke reconsideration of the conventional understanding of personal residence for state income tax purposes. The traditional understanding can cause double taxation when an individual is deemed to be a resident of two or more states, each entitled to tax this dual resident’s entire income. As a matter of tax policy and constitutional law, the formula advanced by Governor Dayton for Minnesota snowbirds is the proper way to tax all dual residents. As to income with respect to which a state has source jurisdiction because the income arises within the state’s geographic boundaries, that state should tax that income, whether or not the taxpayer is a resident of such state. As to income with respect to which two or more states have only residence-based jurisdiction to tax, the states of residence should tax on a proportionate basis, based on the part of the year the dual resident spends in each state. In practice, the income apportioned between states of residence under this approach will typically be dual residents’ intangible investment income such as dividends and interest. To eliminate double residence-based taxation of such income, the Dayton formula should, both as a matter of tax policy and of constitutional law, apply to all individuals who are, for tax purposes, residents of two or more states.

The Dayton proposal highlights the obsolescence of current tax policy and constitutional norms for states’ personal income taxation of residents, norms fashioned for an earlier era. It is time to shift from the traditional personal income tax regime with its increasing possibilities of double residence-based taxation to a system which recognizes multiple states of residence and apportions personal income tax authority among them as to items which are not geographically sourced to the taxing state.

Keywords: state income tax, apportionment, dual residents, double taxation, Minnesota snowbird tax, source and residency, part-year residence, Tamagni, Luther, statutory residence, domicile

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., Apportioning State Personal Income Taxes to Eliminate the Double Taxation of Dual Residents - Thoughts Provoked by the Proposed Minnesota Snowbird Tax (March 28, 2014). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 15, No. 7, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
H B See
677, 88th Leg., Reg. Sess. § 2 (Minn. 2013) (adding definition of "part-year resident
§ 13 (describing income taxation of part-year residents in new Minnesota Statutes § 290 , volume 17
Crossref
As I discuss below, this new category of part-year residence would be different from the traditional personal income tax status of part-year residence. See infra notes 98-102 and accompanying text
. H Minn
, volume 677
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,297
RANK
242,798
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies