Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Uniformity of Taxation Penalties in Australia

A Smailes, P McDermott, 'The Uniformity of Taxation Penalties in Australia' (2013) 39 Monash University Law Review 213-245

University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 14-19

34 Pages Posted: 20 May 2014

Andrew Smailes

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Peter M. McDermott

The University of Queensland - T.C. Beirne School of Law

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Taxation penalties are a significant yet often ignored factor in the consideration and evaluation of tax systems when considering reform. The purpose of this article is to explore the arguments for and against the uniformity of taxation penalties using the Australia uniform tax penalty system in pt 4-25 of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) as an illustrative case in point. This article firstly assesses the system in Australia for internal congruency and examines whether pt 4-25 has successfully created a ‘one stop shop’ for penalties. The answer to this is that pt 4-25 has certainly reduced undesirable complexity. The seamless addition of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax has proved one of the advantages of such a system, but there are some issues that are worthy of further reform. The article secondly examines whether the uniformity of penalties ought to be prescribed and concludes that there are arguments against uniformity that have contributed to a number of jurisdictions retaining a more specific penalty regime.

Keywords: Australian uniform tax penalty system, Taxation Administration Act, tax penalities

Suggested Citation:

Smailes, Andrew and McDermott, Peter M., The Uniformity of Taxation Penalties in Australia (2013). A Smailes, P McDermott, 'The Uniformity of Taxation Penalties in Australia' (2013) 39 Monash University Law Review 213-245, University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 14-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417133
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
A New Tax System (Tax Administration) Bill , p. 7 - 9
Crossref
Legislation Referred to SELC Report , volume 52 , p. 1 - 2
Crossref
Legislation Referred to SELC Report
Crossref
TAA sch 1 s 280-50; Explanatory Memorandum, Tax Laws Amendment (Improvements to Self Assessment) Bill (No 1) 2005 (Cth) , p. 14 - 15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,427
RANK
747,753
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies