Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Not Just Whistling Dixie: The Case for Tax Whistleblowers in the States

Villanova Law Review, Vol. 59, No. 3, 2014

UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 373

79 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2014 Last revised: 30 Aug 2014

Dennis J. Ventry

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Date Written: March 27, 2014

Abstract

This Article examines the successes and failures of current tax whistleblower regimes, with particular emphasis on the states. It considers and then refutes several popular arguments against permitting whistleblowers to submit tax claims, under either a state’s False Claims Act (FCA) or standalone statute, including: (i) whistleblower statutes have historically been used to uncover and prosecute fraudulent behavior, not mere noncompliance with the law; (ii) the “knowing” standard of liability under FCAs creates new liability on taxpayers in jurisdictions permitting false claims pertaining to tax; and (iii) tax law is more complex and uncertain than other areas of the law and therefore off limits to whistleblower actions.

The Article also makes the positive case for tax whistleblowers. It demonstrates how informant insiders can assist outgunned tax agencies combat two persistent problems in tax administration, namely the information gap and the tax gap. At the same time, it makes specific recommendations to address widely shared concerns in the tax whistleblower arena, including (i) the proliferation of frivolous and harassing claims, (ii) unnecessary disclosure of tax return information, and (iii) creating a tax enforcement mechanism that bypasses traditional administrative procedures and expert review. In addition, the Article offers alternative tax whistleblower policies for states to consider. It concludes that a properly drafted and implemented tax whistleblower program can reinforce and improve existing tax enforcement efforts, and yield significant increases in revenue.

Suggested Citation:

Ventry, Dennis J., Not Just Whistling Dixie: The Case for Tax Whistleblowers in the States (March 27, 2014). Villanova Law Review, Vol. 59, No. 3, 2014, UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 373, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
See Dolan , &amp; Mccormally
at 1541 ("[I]f an employee has raised concerns about a transaction or other matter . . . the company must remain sensitive to how any subsequent transfer or any aspect of an employee's performance review (that is, raise, bonus, or promotion decision) might be interpreted by the employee
Id
, p. 1543 - 1587
Id
, volume 1544
-3 I.R.B. 324 (superseding Rev. Proc
Rev. Proc. 2014-1 , p. 2014 - 2015 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Dennis J. Ventry
False Claims in Fight Over California's False Claims Act
Tax Notes State (2019), UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming · 14 Pages · Posted: 12 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 75
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,032
RANK
298,603
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Davis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies