Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whose Trojan Horse? The Dynamics of Resistance against IFRS

36 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 89 (2014)

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 254/2014

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2418356

108 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2014 Last revised: 29 Aug 2023

Martin Gelter

Fordham University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Zehra G. Kavame Eroglu

Deakin University, Geelong, Australia - Deakin Law School

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

The introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) has been debated in the United States since at least the accounting scandals of the early 2000s. While publicly traded firms around the world are increasingly switching to IFRS, often because they are required to do so by law or by their stock exchange, the Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) seems to have become more reticent in recent years. Only foreign issuers have been permitted to use IFRS in the United States since 2007. By contrast, the EU has mandated the use of IFRS in the consolidated financial statements of publicly traded firms since 2005. In the United States, IFRS, which are promulgated by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), are often seen as an attempt by Europeans to colonize U.S. accounting standard setting, and as an element of a foreign legal system alien to U.S. capital markets and securities law. In this article, we suggest that this perception is actually a myth, which we attempt to debunk. In fact, the introduction of IFRS in Europe, particularly Continental Europe, was far from controversial. IFRS were promoted by Anglo-Saxon jurisdictions and strongly supported by the United States, particularly when capital markets internationalized in the 1990s. They were — and still are — in many ways at odds with the Continental European accounting cultures of countries such as France and Germany, on whose examples we draw. In spite of the EU mandate for publicly traded firms, accounting law in these jurisdictions has still not fully absorbed IFRS; nevertheless, for now a solution that reconciles traditional and international accounting has been found. In this article, we explore the problems and resistance of IFRS in Continental Europe and seek to draw lessons for the United States. We argue that given the shared heritage of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and IFRS as investor-oriented accounting standards, their introduction in the United States should be considerably easier than it was on the other side of the Atlantic.

Keywords: IFRS, IAS, GAAP, international accounting, EU Company Law Directives, Fourth Directive, Seventh Directive

JEL Classification: K22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gelter, Martin and Kavame Eroglu, Zehra G., Whose Trojan Horse? The Dynamics of Resistance against IFRS (September 1, 2017). 36 University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law 89 (2014), European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 254/2014, Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2418356, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2418356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
97 References
Yuri Biondi
) (comparing the language used by the Anglo-Saxon accounting standard setters to "Newspeak
ECON. & L , volume 1 Posted: 2011
E G See , Bernard Raffournier
Les oppositions françaises à l'adoption des IFRS: examen critique et tentative d'explication, 13 COMPTIBILITE -CONTROLE -AUDIT 21
Fr.) (summarizing French criticism of fair value and defending IFRS) , p. 24 - 25 Posted: 2007
E G See , Christian Laux &amp; Christian , Leuz
The Crisis of Fair-Value Accounting: Making Sense of the Recent Debate
34 ACCT. ORG. & SOC , volume 826 , p. 831 - 863 Posted: 2009
Bernard Colasse
La normalisation comptable internationale face à la crise
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,056
RANK
121,135
97 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies