Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reconciling Tax Law and Securities Regulation

48 University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform 1 (2014)

58 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2014 Last revised: 3 Dec 2014

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2014

Abstract

Issuers in registered securities offerings must disclose the expected tax consequences to investors investing in the offered securities (“nonfinancial tax disclosure”). This Article advances three arguments regarding nonfinancial tax disclosures. First, nonfinancial tax disclosure practice, as the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) has sanctioned it, does not fulfill its intended regulatory purposes. Currently, nonfinancial tax disclosures provide irrelevant information, sometimes fail to provide material information, create unnecessary transaction costs, and divert valuable administrative resources to the enforcement of largely-meaningless requirements. Second, the practical reason for this failure is the SEC and tax practitioners’ unsuccessful attempt to address investors’ heterogeneous tax preferences. Specifically, nonfinancial tax disclosure practice assumes the existence of a “reasonable investor” who is also an “average taxpayer,” and tax disclosures are drafted for the benefit of this average taxpayer. The concept of an “average taxpayer,” however, is not defensible. Third, the theoretical reason for the regulatory regime’s dysfunctionality is the misapplication of mandatory disclosure theory to nonfinancial tax disclosure requirements. Mandatory disclosure theory, even if accepted at face value, does not support the current regulatory framework, due to the special nature of tax laws. To remedy this failure, this Article describes the types of tax-related disclosures that mandatory disclosure theory would support. Under the proposed regulatory reform, nonfinancial tax disclosures will only include issuer-level tax items (namely, tax items imposed on the issuing entity) that affect how “reasonable investors” calculate their own individual tax liabilities. Under such a regime, there is no need to rely on the “average taxpayer” construct.

Keywords: Tax Disclosure; Securities Regulation; Mandatory Disclosure; Efficient Capital Markets Hypothesis

JEL Classification: H20; H24; H25; H71; K34; K22; K23; O16; G29

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., Reconciling Tax Law and Securities Regulation (April 2, 2014). 48 University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform 1 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
It is well-established law that the securities laws do not require disclosure of information that is publicly known
See In re Progress Energy, Inc., 371 F. Supp. 2d , volume 548 , p. 552 - 53 Posted: 2005
A CFC is a foreign corporation if more than fifty percent of its voting stock is held by "U.S. shareholders
I.R.C. §
is a United States resident holding ten percent or more of the total combined voting power of the corporation. I.R.C. § 957. 210. Practice in this regard is mixed. However, some issuers disclose the fact that they may qualify as CFCs. See, e.g., Arizona Chemical Ltd
SEC Registration Statement (Form S-1) Posted: 2010-04-12
See Zhonglan Dai
738 (finding a "lock-in effect" and investors holding onto capital gains due to decreased supply after a reduction in the capital gains rate); see also Peter Klein
The Capital Gain Lock-In Effect and Long-Horizon Return Reversal , volume 122
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,556
RANK
342,603
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies