Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing the Cloud

SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 135

California Law Review, Vol. 103, No. 1, 2015

66 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2014 Last revised: 13 Feb 2019

Orly Mazur

Southern Methodist University - Dedman School of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2014

Abstract

Transacting business in the “cloud” has quickly gained popularity worldwide as the new method of providing information technology resources. Instead of purchasing or downloading software, we can now use the Internet to access software and other fundamental computing resources located on remote computer networks operated by third parties. These transactions offer companies lower operating costs, increased scalability and improved reliability, but also give rise to a host of international tax issues. Despite the rapid growth and prevalent use of cloud computing, U.S. taxation of international cloud computing transactions has yet to receive significant scholarly attention. This Article seeks to fill that void by analyzing the U.S. tax implications of operating in the cloud from a doctrinal and policy perspective. Such an analysis shows that the technological advances associated with the cloud put pressure on traditional U.S. federal income tax principles, which creates uncertainty, compliance burdens and liability risks for companies and a potential loss of revenue for the government. Applying the current law to cloud computing transactions also results in tax consequences that run counter to sound tax policy and may result in double taxation or complete non-taxation of cloud income. In light of these problems, federal attention is warranted to clarify how U.S. federal income tax principles apply to businesses operating in the cloud. Thus, this Article proposes that Treasury issue guidance that clearly addresses the U.S. tax implications of international cloud computing services and suggests that, ultimately, the United States must collaborate with other countries to achieve international consensus on these issues. Together these changes will ensure that the United States appropriately taxes the cloud and does so in a manner that minimizes double taxation and promotes efficiency, equity and administrative simplicity.

Keywords: tax, international, cloud computing, technology

Suggested Citation:

Mazur, Orly, Taxing the Cloud (April 2, 2014). SMU Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 135, California Law Review, Vol. 103, No. 1, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2419644 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2419644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Richard A See , Peggy B Musgrave &amp; , B Musgrave
Requirements for a "Good
PUBLIC FINANCE IN THEORY AND PRACTICE 224-25
Orly Sulami
Good News in a Bad Economy: Service Acquiesces on Pro-Taxpayer Application of Passive Activity Loss Rules to Limited Liability Companies, 65 TAX LAW , volume 81 Posted: 2011
Treasury White Paper
supra note 39, at 3 (stating that "our overall tax policy goal in this area should emulate policy in other areas -maintain neutrality, fairness and simplicity -a policy which serves to encourage all
Un Model See , Treaty
, p. 1025 - 1052
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Okanga Ogbu Okanga
Intangibles and Transfer Pricing Regulation in Nigeria: An Exposition
33 Pages · Posted: 4 May 2020 · Downloads: 301
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
675
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,489
RANK
88,666
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies