Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do You Get What You Measure? Research Opportunities Based on the Veterans Health Administration Experience

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Apr 2014

Nicole Thibodeau

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

John Evans

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Nandu J. Nagarajan

University of Texas at Arlington

Date Written: January 28, 2014

Abstract

Starting in 1995, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) transformed a bureaucratic healthcare system into a performance driven patient focused integrated health-care network. The VHA’s experience may offer lessons for private and public sector providers as the U.S. explores alternative health-care delivery systems and payment methods. Similar patient focused integrated systems are one of the hallmarks of the latest U.S. attempt to improve the quality and efficiency of health-care delivery. The use of performance incentives to promote cooperation and innovation is also central to both the VHA and the U.S. reform. This study reviews the VHA’s experience with an eye to identifying issues and potential research avenues for accounting researchers interested in the role of accounting information for control, coordination and organizational change.

Keywords: Performance measurement, health-care reform, contracting, Veterans Health Administration, research opportunities

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M52, M54

Suggested Citation:

Thibodeau, Nicole and Evans, John Harry and Nagarajan, Nandu J., Do You Get What You Measure? Research Opportunities Based on the Veterans Health Administration Experience (January 28, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420500
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,406
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies