Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankruptcy’s Corporate Tax Loophole

Fordham Law Review, Vol. 82, 2014

Seattle University School of Law Research Paper No. 14-06

44 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2014 Last revised: 28 May 2014

Diane Lourdes Dick

The University of Iowa College of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Imagine you are a company with a failing business that is drowning in debt. On the bright side, you also possess a very valuable asset. This asset is unique because, unlike most assets, if you liquidate the business through a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, it will be extinguished and its value will not be realized by any shareholders or creditors. On the other hand, even if you substantially liquidate the business using Chapter 11, you can, thanks to an extraordinary ambiguity in the law, preserve this valuable asset. Even better, you can direct the value of this asset to your preferred stakeholders — whether they are shareholders or creditors — rather than have the asset’s value allocated among stakeholders according to bankruptcy’s absolute priority rule. You can do this because you have the most information about this valuable asset and because bankruptcy law and courts effectively ignore its existence, leaving you to allocate its value as you see fit. What is this unique asset? Valuable tax attributes, including net operating losses and credit carryovers. This scenario is not purely hypothetical; Solyndra and Washington Mutual, among others, have effectively used Chapter 11 to divert the value of tax losses and credits to a select group of shareholders and creditors in contravention of bankruptcy‘s distributional norms. This Article recommends statutory revisions to the tax and bankruptcy laws to remove the unintended tax advantage and thus neutralize the tax consequences of corporate restructuring decisions.

Keywords: Corporate Bankruptcy, Chapter 11, Corporate Taxation

Suggested Citation:

Dick, Diane Lourdes, Bankruptcy’s Corporate Tax Loophole (2014). Fordham Law Review, Vol. 82, 2014, Seattle University School of Law Research Paper No. 14-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Voluntary Petition
In re Solyndra LLC , p. 11 - 21799 Posted: 2011
In re Solyndra, No. 11-21799. 2. Unless the context indicates otherwise
Solyndra" refers to Solyndra LLC
Under bankruptcy law, a company is insolvent when "the sum of such entity's debts is greater than all of such entity's property, at a fair valuation , volume 101 Posted: 2012
Schedules of Assets & Liabilities of Solyndra LLC (Second Amended) at 1, In re Solyndra , p. 11 - 21799 Posted: 2012-02-14
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,697
RANK
286,507
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies