Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance at Nortel – Revisiting Board Functions

42 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2014 Last revised: 18 May 2014

P. M. Vasudev

University of Ottawa - Common Law Section

Date Written: April 3, 2014

Abstract

The current model in corporate governance theory is predicated on management by CEO and a team of executives, with directors in charge of oversight and monitoring. Corporate law endorses this model by authorizing directors to supervise management, rather than manage corporations by themselves. This article surveys board oversight at Nortel Networks, the failed Canadian technology giant, to assess the adequacy of the prescription about monitoring in governance theory. The hypothesis about boards and their functions are evaluated with reference to the following events at Nortel: Churn in CEOs and succession planning; Business acquisitions strategy; Accounting restatements and investigation; Business oversight and bankruptcy filing.

Insufficient attention to board engagement with business and strategy is identified as a shortcoming in current theory. Boards would be the last line of defence in troubled companies. The Nortel experience suggests that boards that are mostly independent and the bare monitoring function might not be adequate as universal principles, particularly in troubled, under-performing companies. The issue with independent directors and their function as monitors would be especially acute in a corporation facing leadership instability and business challenges, and is in need of re-strategizing for the medium and long term. Situations of this nature illustrate how boards can better serve corporations and their stakeholders through greater engagement with business strategy and being more proactive as necessary.

The article proposes the creation of a new board committee to deal with business and strategy. This committee will constantly monitor the business of the corporate enterprise and participate in strategy development. By doing so, boards can contribute to assuring a profitable enterprise that is commercially sound and sustainable. The proposal is based on the current system of board committees and it addresses board responsibility for business and strategy – an issue that receives limited attention in the prevailing framework.

Keywords: Corporate governance, board oversight, Nortel, board committees, CEO selection, succession planning, business and strategy, director engagement, accounting restatements

JEL Classification: K22, L14, L19, L21

Suggested Citation:

Vasudev, P. M., Corporate Governance at Nortel – Revisiting Board Functions (April 3, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420224 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2420224
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Nortel Networks, Form 10-­-K filing for Posted: 2008
Andrew Wahl
60 "Ciena Beats NSN to Buy Nortel's MEN" Light Reading
Telecom: Nortel's final folly Posted: 2009-10-12
Rakesh Khurana
For an indication of similar habits of thought in Canada, see Sean Silcoff
Searching for a Savior: The Irrational Quest for Charismatic CEOs Posted: 2004-02-24
William Douglas
Directors who Do Not Direct
Harv. L. Rev Posted: 1935
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,114
RANK
225,151
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies