Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accountant Stereotype: Positive or Negative?

59 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2014

G. Steve Smith

Southeastern Oklahoma State University

Date Written: April 10, 2014

Abstract

This working paper examines the accountant’s image as it is developed within a sample of fiction novels. The description of accountants and their activities in these novels are used to determine the attributes associated with accountants. The descriptions in the novels are analyzed using context analysis and the General Inquirer. A comparison is made between the results found in present study using context analysis with previous studies using social-cultural methods to investigate stereotypes. The conclusion reached is that past studies of the accountants’ image have not eliminated social-cultural biases from their research results. In addition, the media used in identifying the “accountants’ image” influences the level of negativity or positivity associated with that image.

Keywords: Fiction novels, accountants’ stereotypes, content analysis, General Inquirer, social-cultural theories

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Smith, G. Steve, The Accountant Stereotype: Positive or Negative? (April 10, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2422998 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2422998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
131 References
E Abrahamson , C Park
Concealment of negative organizational outcomes: an agency theory perspective
Academy of Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 5 , p. 1302 - 1334 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R Allen
The Heart of Matthew Jade Posted: 2001
J Archer
Cat o'nine tales and other stories Posted: 2007
J Archer
Teachers seek to polish school's image
Education Week , volume 16 , issue 18 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
478
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,042
RANK
136,930
1 Citations
131 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies