Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure and Financial Market Regulation

Chapter in The Oxford Handbook on Financial Regulation, edited by Eilís Ferran, Niamh Moloney, and Jennifer Payne, (Oxford University Press).

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 252/2014

Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 68/2014

38 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2014 Last revised: 2 Dec 2019

Luca Enriques

Bocconi University - Bocconi Law Department; University of Oxford - Faculty of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); European Banking Institute

Sergio Gilotta

University of Bologna - Department of Legal Studies

Date Written: April 11, 2014

Abstract

This is a draft chapter for a forthcoming volume, The Oxford Handbook on Financial Regulation, edited by Eilís Ferran, Niamh Moloney, and Jennifer Payne, (Oxford University Press). It provides an overview of the role of mandatory disclosure in financial markets. Focusing mainly on issuer disclosure, we discuss the various goals that academics and policymakers associate to disclosure-based regulatory techniques and the rationales in support of mandatory, as opposed to voluntary, disclosure. We highlight the limits of disclosure as a regulatory technique and the costs – both direct and indirect – it involves. We conclude by addressing a few selected issues that, in our view, are particularly representative of the challenges that today’s policymakers face in the area of mandatory disclosure.

Keywords: Capital markets, mandatory disclosure, selective disclosure, on-going disclosure, securities regulation, therapeutic disclosure, investor protection, price accuracy

JEL Classification: G28, G38, K22

Suggested Citation:

Enriques, Luca and Gilotta, Sergio, Disclosure and Financial Market Regulation (April 11, 2014). Chapter in The Oxford Handbook on Financial Regulation, edited by Eilís Ferran, Niamh Moloney, and Jennifer Payne, (Oxford University Press)., European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 252/2014, Oxford Legal Studies Research Paper No. 68/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2423768 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2423768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Disclosure, especially when too detailed, forward-looking and targeted at business information (such as the firm's current R&D), may weaken firms' incentives in the creation of new products, and this represents a straightforward drawback from the point of view of societal welfare
excess" disclosure in the financial market may stifle the relevant requirements
Public disclosure makes a firm's investment decisions (and their outcomes)
See eg Easterbrook and Fischel , issue 9
Crossref
L Zingales , S Gilotta
Disclosure in Securities Markets and the Firm's Need for Confidentiality: Theoretical Framework and Regulatory Analysis' (2012) 13 European Business Organization Law Review
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 391 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,754
ABSTRACT VIEWS
24,231
RANK
4,631
3 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies