Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Industry Specialization, Chapter 15

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014

Posted: 14 Apr 2014 Last revised: 20 Apr 2014

Debra C. Jeter

Vanderbilt University - Accounting

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

As audit quality is paramount in returning the profession to the “priesthood” in the wake of accounting scandals such as Enron and bank failures, perhaps the most important question with respect to industry specialization is whether or not industry specialists provide truly superior quality audits. Research in industry specialization by auditors has focused to date primarily on addressing this question; the pricing of audits by specialists is a related issue also examined in a number of studies. Research suggests that specialists are associated with higher earnings quality for their auditees, whether due to intervention in the reporting process, or because management anticipates such intervention and constrains opportunistic earnings management.

The role of industry specialization in audit pricing has been frequently addressed in the literature, and yet remains largely unresolved. Some studies present evidence of specialist premiums, while others find no premiums or premiums only for certain subsets of clients. In its 2003 report, the GAO expressed some concern that auditor choice was limited for large national and multinational companies requiring industry-specific expertise, noting that an auditor who audits a number of smaller companies within an industry may not have the necessary expertise to handle the larger clients in that industry. Most researchers, however, find little evidence of adverse impacts such as oligopolistic pricing as a result of the increased audit market concentration resulting from the audit firm mergers and demise of Arthur Andersen.

Industry specialization, if pursued as a means of enhancing the knowledge and understanding necessary to conduct superior audits, should result in benefits to both client and auditor. Industry specialists may be able to provide higher levels of assurance because they are more likely to assess risks, and to detect financial reporting errors and irregularities, and are thus equipped to deliver better planned and more effective audits.

Suggested Citation:

Jeter, Debra C., Auditor Industry Specialization, Chapter 15 (January 31, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2424827
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
965
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies