Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Concern

Routledge Companion to Auditing. Edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willikens, 2014

Posted: 17 Apr 2014

Marshall A. Geiger

University of Richmond

Date Written: April 15, 2014

Abstract

Accurately assessing the ability of a financially distressed company to stay in business through the next year is a difficult task at best. Notwithstanding this difficulty, auditors have seemingly been saddled with a large portion of this responsibility for the companies that they audit. Current auditing standards in most countries do not intend for auditors to be predictors of future viability; nevertheless, the standards require auditors to modify their normal reports to highlight the fact that, in the auditor’s professional judgment, they have serious doubts about whether their client will be able to continue in business through the next fiscal year. The judgments involved in this assessment are complex and the auditor-client dynamics leading to a going concern modified opinion are not fully understood. This chapter presents a high level overview of the existing research attempting to shed light on this context-rich reporting obligation of the auditor, as well as the effect of these types of opinions on companies, auditors and the markets.

Keywords: Audit Reporting, Going Concern, Bankruptcy, Financial Distress

JEL Classification: M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Geiger, Marshall A., Going Concern (April 15, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing. Edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willikens, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2425369
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies