Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Major Surgery Needed: A Call for Structural Reform of the U.S. Corporate Income Tax

52 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2014

Eric J. Toder

Urban Institute

Alan D. Viard

American Enterprise Institute

Date Written: April 4, 2014

Abstract

It is widely recognized that the current U.S. corporate income tax is flawed, particularly in its treatment of foreign‐source income. These flaws are amplified by the high U.S. statutory tax rate. Unfortunately,current reform proposals fail to resolve the fundamental contradictions in the current corporate income tax structure.

The current system and the reform proposals attempt to base corporate taxation on the source of the corporate income, the residence of the corporation, or a combination of those two factors. The problem is that neither source nor corporate residence can be easily defined. Any viable reform must either find an agreed‐upon way to define those terms or must restructure the tax system in a way that avoids the need to define them.

In this report, we describe the challenges facing the corporate income tax and discuss two structural reform options that could address them. One option would seek international agreement on how to allocate income of multinational corporations among countries. The other option would eliminate the corporate income tax, but would tax American shareholders of publicly traded companies at ordinary income tax rates on their dividends and accrued capital gains. We discuss the benefits and limitations of each option.

Suggested Citation:

Toder, Eric J. and Viard, Alan D., Major Surgery Needed: A Call for Structural Reform of the U.S. Corporate Income Tax (April 4, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2426657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2426657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
Chart 3. Combined National and Sub-National Corporate Income Tax Rate Posted: 1981
United States Other OECD weighted by current year GDP Other OECD weigthed by 1981 GDP (only includes countries in OECD Posted: 1981
Eric J Allen , Susan C Morse
Tax-Haven Incorporation for U.S.-Headquartered Firms: No Exodus Yet
National Tax Journal , volume 66 , p. 395 - 420 Posted: 2013-06
Crossref
Rosanne Altshuler , Harry Grubert
Formula Apportionment: Is it Better than the Current System and are there Better Alternatives?
National Tax Journal , volume 63 , issue 4 , p. 1145 - 84 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,561
RANK
350,748
5 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Stateless Income

By Edward D. Kleinbard

Tax Haven Incorporation for U.S. Headquartered Firms: No Exodus Yet

By Eric J. Allen and Susan C. Morse

The David R. Tillinghast Lecture: The Rising Tax-Electivity of U.S. Corporate Residence

By Daniel Shaviro

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies