Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Old Hens Make the Best Soup': Accounting for the Earnings Process and the IASB/FASB Attempts to Reform Revenue Recognition Accounting Standards

Accounting in Europe, 2014, Vol. 11, No. 1, 13-33

36 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2014 Last revised: 25 Apr 2014

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Eiko Tsujiyama

Waseda University - Graduate School of Commerce

Jonathan C. Glover

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Nicole Thorne Jenkins

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Bjorn Jorgensen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Accounting

John Lacey

California State University, Long Beach

Richard H. Macve

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: April 14, 2014

Abstract

By developing a synthesis of documents that have been released officially under the revenue recognition project jointly run by the IASB and FASB, this article points out that the earnings generation and realisation process over time (that is to say, the traditional accounting model) is in reality still playing an important role without losing its raison d'être. Although this model is supposed to have been consistently rejected since the outset on the premise of the adoption of the assets and liabilities approach amid the Boards’ attempt to establish a new revenue recognition model, this article aims at reconfirming the significance and validity of this earnings process – that is, the corporate process of generating and realising earnings over time - as the representational focus of accounting for revenue recognition. Through an internal critique , our article summarizes and discusses successive Boards’ proposals under the same asset-liability approach that they have been advocating for revenue recognition. Through a comprehensive comparative analysis (external critique), our article further criticizes the usefulness and feasibility of this approach, especially the transfer-of-control basis of revenue recognition which the Boards propose. It argues then for an alternative approach that combines asset-liability with revenue-expense accounting while re-establishing focus upon the earnings process over time.

Keywords: revenue recognition, income to the firm, structuring opportunities

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Tsujiyama, Eiko and Glover, Jonathan C. and Jenkins, Nicole Thorne and Jørgensen, Bjørn N and Lacey, John and Macve, Richard H., 'Old Hens Make the Best Soup': Accounting for the Earnings Process and the IASB/FASB Attempts to Reform Revenue Recognition Accounting Standards (April 14, 2014). Accounting in Europe, 2014, Vol. 11, No. 1, 13-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2427943
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
C R Baker , R Hayes
Reflecting form over substance: the case of Enron Corp
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 15 , p. 767 - 785 Posted: 2004
Crossref
G J Benston
Fair-value accounting: A cautionary tale from Enron
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 465 - 484 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Y Biondi
The Firm as an Entity: Management, Organization, Accounting. Università degli Studi di Brescia Working Paper No , volume 46 Posted: 2005-08-02
Y Biondi
Accounting Without Measure: How Economic Theory Can Better Fit the Economic and Monetary System We Live In
Money and Calculation: Economic and Sociological Perspectives , p. 34 - 64 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Ekaete Efretuei
International Accounting and Sales Manipulation in Failed Firms
21 Pages · Posted: 26 Sep 2019 · Last revised: 26 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 60
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,602
RANK
222,076
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies