Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blurred Vision, Perilous Future: Management Fraud at Olympus

Issues in Accounting Education, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2014

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Dennis Caplan

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

David Marcinko

Skidmore College

Date Written: April 21, 2014

Abstract

In 2011, Japan was shocked by the revelation of a fraud at one of its most prominent companies, Olympus. What was more shocking was that the fraud was perpetrated by its Chairman of the Board and past president, Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, in collusion with several other Board members and officers. The whistleblower was Michael Woodford, a British citizen and the Company’s first non-Japanese president and CEO. Woodford had held the post of president for just six months before he was precipitously fired at a Board of Director’s meeting on October 14, 2011. This case demonstrates how poor governance structures allowed company executives and directors to circumvent accounting rules and hide investment losses for over two decades. The accounting topics include (1) methods of accounting for investments in financial instruments; (2) recognition and measurement of goodwill at the time of acquisition; and (3) consolidation accounting. The case requires students to link economic events to business decisions, and understand the financial reporting ramifications of those decisions. The case also requires students to critically analyze corporate governance mechanisms, and to consider the external auditor’s responsibility for detecting and communicating financial statement fraud.

Keywords: Olympus, fraud, corporate governance, financial accounting, auditing, consolidation, fair value accounting

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Saurav K. and Caplan, Dennis and Marcinko, David, Blurred Vision, Perilous Future: Management Fraud at Olympus (April 21, 2014). Issues in Accounting Education, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2427240
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Provide a brief synopsis of economic events occurring in Japan and how they affected Olympus's business strategy and risks. Discuss, in context of Olympus, how economic events lead to business risk which leads to financial reporting risk and ultimately audit risk
Since Japanese GAAP allowed these investments to be valued at cost, Olympus was able to hide unrealized losses by not selling these investments
GAAP, investments in marketable securities have been reported at fair value since the adoption of SFAS No , volume 115 Posted: 1993
Discuss the pros and cons of valuing investments at cost versus fair value from the perspective of decision-usefulness in financial reporting
Load more
1 Citations
Osama Wagdi , Amira Hasaneen , Madyha Metwally
The Impact of Executive Management on Internal Auditing Quality Under the Agency’s Problem: Evidence From Egypt
International Journal of Accounting and Financial Reporting 9 (4), 41-63, 2019 · 23 Pages · Posted: 4 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
114,866
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies