Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Probability, Professionalism, and Protecting Taxpayers

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 68, No. 3, 2014

UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 377

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 385

103 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2014 Last revised: 19 Feb 2015

Dennis J. Ventry

University of California, Davis - School of Law

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: April 21, 2014

Abstract

This Article — the first in a three-part series — analyzes the affirmative and disciplinary duties imposed on tax lawyers that require them to make probability assessments about the merits of a client’s tax position or tax-favored transaction and to reflect those estimates with numerical precision. It describes how the Treasury, Congress, and the American Bar Association (often in concert, occasionally at odds) forged this obligatory standard of care over the last three decades with the shared goal of facilitating accurate advice, accurate reporting positions, and compliance with the law. The resulting regulatory standard of care (which swept aside the old regime of self-regulation) assists tax lawyers in avoiding flawed methodological processes and in minimizing psychological biases and misaligned incentives that can distort professional judgment. In this way, the standard of care for tax lawyers — particularly its emphasis on improving accuracy and reducing errors by updating subjective beliefs with new, relevant information — reflects a branch of probabilistic decision theory known as Bayesian reasoning.

Suggested Citation:

Ventry, Dennis J. and Borden, Bradley T., Probability, Professionalism, and Protecting Taxpayers (April 21, 2014). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 68, No. 3, 2014, UC Davis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 377, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 385, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2427498
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
ABA Comm. on Ethics & Prof 'l Responsibility, Formal Op , p. 85 - 352 Posted: 1985
Crossref
According to this report compiled by the ABA Section of Taxation on the "realistic possibility of success" standard, while a "5 percent or 10 percent likelihood of success was not enough to meet the new standard . . . a position with a likelihood of success approaching one-third should pass muster
Report of the Special Task Force on Formal Opinion 85-352, 39 Tax Law , volume 635 Posted: 1986
Aicpa See
Tax Division's Federal Taxation Division, Positions Contrary to Treasury Department or Internal Revenue Service Interpretations of the Code
Statements on Responsibilities in Tax Practice (SRTP Posted: 1977
Bernard Wolfman , James P Holden &amp; Kenneth , L Harris
The Legislative Response of the 97th Congress to Tax Shelters, the Audit Lottery, and Other Forms of Intentional or Reckless Noncompliance
The ABA's interpretation of the "reasonable basis" standard for a return position was outlined in Formal Opinion 314, as discussed at supra note 29. By the late 1970s and early 1980s, the standard had few defenders , volume 18 Posted: 1983-07-31
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,632
RANK
304,992
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California, Davis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies