Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aspects of Obstacles for Applying Target Costing: A Survey of Manufacturing Firms in Egypt

Scientific Papers Series Management, Economic Engineering in Agriculture and Rural Development, Vol. 14, Issue 1, 2014

6 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2014

Petru Stefea

West University of Timisoara - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Karim Mamdouh Abbas

Modern University for Technology and Information (MTI)

Osama Wagdi

Management Sciences Department, Akhbar Alyom Academy

Date Written: April 24, 2014

Abstract

The present investigation aims to determine the aspects of obstacles for applying Target Costing(TC) system in Egyptian case and the significant differences among effects of these obstacles . The study used the survey method to describe and analyze the obstacles in some Egyptian firms. The population of the study is Egyptian manufacturing firms. Accordingly, the number of received questionnaires was 388 (21 Egyptian manufacturing firms) in 2013. Finally, the study found that there is a significant divergence among obstacles for applying Target Costing (TC) system in Egyptian manufacturing firms (Internal and external).The external dimensions are the most influence of internal dimensions, where the weakness of the competition is the highest effect in the external dimensions case but resistance top management is the highest effect in external dimensions case.

Keywords: Target Costing, Manufacturing, Egyptian firms

Suggested Citation:

Stefea, Petru and Abbas, Karim Mamdouh and Wagdi, Osama, Aspects of Obstacles for Applying Target Costing: A Survey of Manufacturing Firms in Egypt (April 24, 2014). Scientific Papers Series Management, Economic Engineering in Agriculture and Rural Development, Vol. 14, Issue 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2428759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
S Ansari , J Bell , J Cypher , J Dears , J Dutton , J Ferguson , M Hallin , K Marx , C Ross , C Zampino , P
Target costing: The next frontier in strategic cost management Posted: 1997
Crossref
K B Clark , T Fujimoto
Product development performance: Strategy, organization, and management in the world auto industry Posted: 1991
R Cooper
How Japanese manufacturing firms implement target costing systems: A field-based research study. Working paper Posted: 1994
R Cooper
When lean enterprises collide: Competing through confrontation , p. 112 - 162 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
491
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,630
RANK
132,602
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies