Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Policy versus Creative Accounting

IFRS: Global Rules & Local Use, Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 9 May 2014

Renata Dylag

Kozminski University

Ewelina Puchalska

Kozminski University

Date Written: October 18, 2013

Abstract

Accounting policy is a set of guidelines, regulations and rules selected from the applicable accounting law. The policy enables preparation of a company’s financial statement that is of high quality and reflects its real situation. Proper selection of accounting policies could have an impact on some measurements of assets and financial performance of an entity, which may influence the decisions made by users of financial statement. However, an accounting policy cannot be used by entities as a means to arbitrarily benefit a company's financial position and therefore improve the image of a company compared to competition. Income-boosting accounting changes, income -smoothing accounting changes or non-disclosure of stakeholder relevant information could be considered fraud.

The purpose of this paper is to present the significant role of accounting policy and its influence on the reported figures. By examining the financial statement of ABC Company the study portrays the range of accounting policies and highlights the difficulty of distinguishing accounting changes applied in order to enhance the credibility of information provided by the financial statement from deliberate adjustments in the book of accounts made with the intent of gaining advantages and meeting internal targets. Therefore, in order to facilitate understanding of the issue this study provides practical examples of some deliberate adjustments and indicate their direct impact on the financial statement.

Keywords: accounting policy, creative accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dylag, Renata and Puchalska, Ewelina, Accounting Policy versus Creative Accounting (October 18, 2013). IFRS: Global Rules & Local Use, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2434550
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Bela , E Bolesławska
Oszustwa finansowe. Podręcznik dla audytora [Financial fraud. Auditor's handbook
Warszawa: InfoAudit Sp. z o.o., 2. Cebrowska T. (2010) Posted: 2005
W Gos , S Hońko
Prezentacja zmian polityki rachunkowości w sprawozdaniach finansowych spółek objętych indeksem WIG 20
Zeszyty Teoretyczne Rachunkowości , issue 60 Posted: 2011
P Kabalski
Defining Issues
Polityka rachunkowości w spółce stosującej IFRS Posted: 2005
M Kranacher , R Riley , J ; Wells , Inc
Changes to accounting rules (policies), estimates, correction of errors, events after the balance sheet date -recognition and presentation
NAS National Accounting Standard , volume 7 , issue 7 , p. 17 - 25 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
227,633
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies