Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audits of Private Firms

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming

Posted: 12 May 2014

John Christian Langli

BI Norwegian Business School - Department of Accounting, Auditing and Business Analytics

Tobias Svanström

Umeå University; Norwegian School of Management (BI)

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

In this chapter we highlight the differences between audits of private and public companies and review and synthesize the available empirical evidence, which is sparse in comparison to what is available for public companies. The evidence is fragmented and more research is needed in order to understand the role of auditing among private companies.

Keywords: auditing, private firms

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Langli, John Christian and Svanström, Tobias, Audits of Private Firms (January 31, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2435446
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,070
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies