Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
(Un)Appealing Deference to the Tax Court

Duke Law Journal, Vol. 63, No. 8, 2014

Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 285

62 Pages Posted: 12 May 2014 Last revised: 14 May 2014

Leandra Lederman

Indiana University Maurer School of Law

Date Written: May 12, 2014

Abstract

The U.S. Tax Court (Tax Court), which hears the vast majority of litigated federal tax cases, occupies an unusual place in the federal government. It is a federal court located outside of the judicial branch, but its decisions are appealable to the federal courts of appeals. This odd structure, coupled with the court’s history as an independent agency in the executive branch, can give rise to important questions, such as the standard of review that should apply to its decisions. In particular, should the courts of appeals treat Tax Court decisions the same as those of district courts in tax cases, or should they apply a more deferential standard analogous to review of agency decisions, as the U.S. Supreme Court held in 1943 in Dobson v. Commissioner?

Answering the standard-of-review question implicates issues of both law and policy. Contrary to some scholarship, this Article argues that, as a doctrinal matter, no vestige of the Dobson rule remains and that courts of appeals must apply the same standard of judicial review that they apply to district courts in nonjury cases. The Article further argues that appellate review theory supports that result. The Dobson rule was a largely instrumental one designed by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Robert Jackson to reduce the volume of tax litigation. Although tax litigation is unusually decentralized and the Tax Court has unique expertise, those differences do not support departing from the policies underlying appellate review. Appellate courts therefore should not defer to the interpretations of the Tax Court any more than they do to those of the district courts.

Keywords: Tax Court, appellate review, judicial deference, tax controversies, tax procedure, tax litigation, Dobson rule, Justice Jackson

JEL Classification: K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Lederman, Leandra, (Un)Appealing Deference to the Tax Court (May 12, 2014). Duke Law Journal, Vol. 63, No. 8, 2014, Indiana Legal Studies Research Paper No. 285, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2436033
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Id
222 (footnotes omitted) (quoting Helvering v. Cement Investors, Inc., Nos , p. 644 - 690 Posted: 1942
John Q Barrett , Justice Jackson
What the Law's Going To Be"-at Least Until Its "Gelding
6 GREEN BAG 2D , volume 125 , p. 125 - 151 Posted: 2003
See Id
at 127 (noting Costelloe's "recommendation that appellate courts, or at least the Supreme Court
Phil C Neal , Justice Jackson
A Law Clerk's Recollections, 68 ALB
L. REV , volume 549 , p. 553 - 54 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,918
RANK
499,164
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Maurer School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies