Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing the Unheavenly Chorus: Why Section 501(C)(6) Trade Associations are Undeserving of Tax Exemption

92 Denv. U. L. Rev. 265 (2015)

60 Pages Posted: 18 May 2014 Last revised: 24 Jul 2015

Philip Hackney

University of Pittsburgh - School of Law

Date Written: May 16, 2014

Abstract

Our federal, state, and local governments provide a subsidy that enhances the political voice of business interests. This article discusses the federal subsidy for business interests provided through the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) and argues why we should end that subsidy. Under the same section that provides exemption from income tax for charitable organizations, the Code also exempts nonprofit organizations classified as “business leagues, chambers of commerce, real-estate boards, boards of trade, or professional football leagues.” Theory supporting tax exemption states that we should subsidize nonprofit organizations that provide goods or services that are undersupplied by the market. A charitable organization that assists the poor is a classic example of a service undersupplied by the market. Business interest group services, however, are found in abundance. Data shows that there is a significant bias in the interest group system in favor of business interests and away from interests such as labor, the poor, and the environment. Tax-exemption at federal, state, and local levels likely fosters at least some of this bias in our democracy. Rather than enhancing a pluralistic society, as some argue is a prime benefit of our tax-exempt system, tax-exemption for business interest groups enhances the voice of the powerful and detracts from the voice of the weak. Thus, because business interests experience little in the way of market failure and tax-exemption for such groups likely leads to a bias in our democratic system I argue we should end exemption for nonprofit business interests.

Keywords: Trade Association, Interest groups, exempt organization, federal income tax, tax exempt, business league, business organization, business interest, collective action, section 501(c), section 501(c)(6), nonprofit organization, voluntary sector, independent sector, pluralism

JEL Classification: K2, K34, K23, L31, L30, L52, N40, N60

Suggested Citation:

Hackney, Philip, Taxing the Unheavenly Chorus: Why Section 501(C)(6) Trade Associations are Undeserving of Tax Exemption (May 16, 2014). 92 Denv. U. L. Rev. 265 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2437930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
&amp; Bittker , Rahdert
Crossref
See , Of , Comm , On , Taxation , Cong , Description Of Revenue , Provisions , In , President&apos;s Fiscal Year ; Wall , J St
Print 1999); see also Jacob M. Schlesinger, Clinton Plan to Tax Lobbyists' Investment Gains Hits Home in a Fury of Faxes, Letters, Web Sites
BUDGET PROPOSAL , issue 2 , p. 278 - 81 Posted: 1999
E G See , Miriam Galston
Lobbying and the Public Interest: Rethinking the Internal Revenue Code's Treatment of Legislative Activities, 71 TEX. L. REV. 1269, 1274 (1993) (arguing for improving the lobbying regulatory regime to encourage "educational advocacy"). 284. 26 , volume 501 Posted: 2012
The Mark Irving Lichbach , Cooperator&apos;s Dilemma
Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,166
RANK
349,147
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pittsburgh School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies