Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Rules-Based Characteristics in U.S. GAAP: Theories and Evidence

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

55 Pages Posted: 23 May 2014 Last revised: 30 Jan 2016

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

John M. McInnis

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Richard Mergenthaler

Penn State University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 28, 2016

Abstract

Despite debate on the desirability of rules-based standards, no studies provide evidence on why accounting standards take on rules-based characteristics. We identify and test five theories from prior research (litigation risk, constraining opportunism, complexity, transaction frequency, and age) that could explain why some U.S. accounting standards contain rules-based characteristics. Litigation risk and complexity are most consistently related to cross-sectional and time-series variation in rules-based characteristics. We find more limited evidence that frequent transactions, age and desires by regulators to constrain opportunistic reporting are related to rules-based standards. We note, however, that our findings are necessarily descriptive because standards arise endogenously from market and political forces, limiting causal interpretation. Further, it is difficult to perfectly separate rules-based characteristics of the standard from both the complexity of the standard and the characteristics of the underlying transaction, including the complexity of the transaction.

Keywords: Rules-based accounting standards, standard setting, litigation, transaction complexity

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, K20, K22

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and McInnis, John M. and Mergenthaler, Richard Dean, Explaining Rules-Based Characteristics in U.S. GAAP: Theories and Evidence (January 28, 2016). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2439984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2439984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
14 Citations
Manfred Kühnberger
Kapitalmarktorientierte Rechnungslegung
, p. 1 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Badryah Alhusaini , Kai Du , Dan Givoly
The Impact of the Codification of Accounting Standards on Compliance and Reporting Costs, and its Usefulness for Empirical Research
55 Pages · Posted: 23 Dec 2021 · Last revised: 23 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Li Fang , Jeffrey A. Pittman , Yinqi Zhang , Yuping Zhao
Corporate Monitoring and Misreporting: The Role of Rules-based and Principles-based Accounting Standards
62 Pages · Posted: 27 Feb 2018 · Last revised: 30 Aug 2022 · Downloads: 490
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Masatsugu Sanada
The Social Construction of Accounting Reality: Translation of a Principles-Based Discourse
40 Pages · Posted: 7 Mar 2019 · Last revised: 7 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 515
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,856
RANK
166,710
14 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies