Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Equity: Governance Arbitrage and Lessons for Public Corporate Governance

27th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2014 Paper

37 Pages Posted: 24 May 2014 Last revised: 5 Aug 2014

Guy Schofield

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies

Date Written: August 5, 2014

Abstract

In this paper we test the proposition put forward by private equity practitioners that they undertake “governance arbitrage”. This proposition suggests that companies with higher agency costs are more likely to receive a bid from a PE firm.

We find evidence that companies with higher agency costs are indeed more likely to receive a PE bid. PE is expected to make changes in the target company’s governance, which would reduce these agency costs. We examine the aspects in their governance which make these target companies vulnerable to PE bids. The results may provide lessons for public corporate governance in highlighting areas where private governance expects to be more successful than contemporary public corporate governance. Additionally we find evidence of a spill-over effect in that public corporations are more likely to improve their governance during a period when there is increased private equity activity.

In contrast to much of the debate on the merits of PE, we highlight that the current state of public corporate governance is itself a driver for the existence of PE in that the need to address ineffective governance underlies PE activity. This conclusion in turn suggests that regulating changes to governance requires clear market goals and compelling empirical evidence to show how these goals can be realised. Companies also need to implement governance mechanisms that are optimal for their circumstances and desired goals. If we impose a uniform set of constraints to meet a set of desired public interest goals then it seems likely that we also need a complementary mechanism to support a market for corporate control. In this sense PE is a desirable “player in the field” in that an economy is generally better off with, rather than without, “buyout governance”.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Private Equity, Moral Hazard, Stochastic Frontier Analysis, Principal Component Analysis

JEL Classification: G23, G32, G34

Suggested Citation:

Schofield, Guy, Private Equity: Governance Arbitrage and Lessons for Public Corporate Governance (August 5, 2014). 27th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2014 Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441166 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2441166
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
R B Adams , B E Hermalin , M S Weisbach
The Role of Boards of Directors in Corporate Governance: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Aigner , C A K Lovell , P Schmidt
Formulation and estimation of stochastic frontier production function models
Journal of Econometrics , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 37 Posted: 1977
Crossref
H Almeida , M Campello
Financial Constraints, Asset Tangibility, and Corporate Investment , volume 20 , p. 1429 - 1460 Posted: 2007
Crossref
G E Battese , T J Coelli
A Model for Technical Inefficiency Effects in a Stochastic Frontier Production Function for Panel Data
Empirical Economics , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 325 - 332 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,224
RANK
411,653
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies