Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal lobbying at the IASB

61 Pages Posted: 27 May 2014 Last revised: 22 Feb 2016

Julia Morley

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 24, 2, 2014

Abstract

This study adds to prior work on the production of accounting rules (Francis, 1987; Nobes, 1992; Brown and Feroz, 1992; Saemann, 1995; Pong and Whittington, 1996; Kwok and Sharp, 2005; Bhimani, 2008; Ramanna, 2008; Stenka and Taylor, 2010; Giner and Arce, 2012; Jorissen et al., 2012, 2013) by analysing the social psychology of standard setters. It complements work analysing the impact of psychological factors on standard setting (Hirschleifer and Teoh, 2009; Allen and Ramanna, 2013), finding that group effects (Bartel and Wiesenfeld, 2013; Haslam et al., 2006; Hogg and Abrams, 1988; Hogg et al., 1986) combined with existing project management structures at the IASB to undermine the IASB Liabilities Project. The paper uses interviews and analyses of IASB documents and board meetings to open up the black box of the standard setting organisation to reveal the existence of ‘internal lobbying’ within standard setting organisation that rendered the project vulnerable to external lobbying activities. Such findings contribute to the existing literature on lobbying and standard setting by demonstrating the importance of understanding the connection be- tween lobbying activities and the social processes taking place within the standard setting organisation when trying to explain regulatory outcomes. Furthermore, the study addresses the role of technical staff at the IASB in the process of standard setting through interviews with almost all the staff who worked on the project as well as several board members.

Keywords: Financial reporting regulation, lobbying, social psychology

Suggested Citation:

Morley, Julia Eva, Internal lobbying at the IASB (December 24, 2, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2441701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
• IASB -International Accounting Standards Board • ICAEW -Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales • CFA UK -Chartered Financial Analysts Institution • ASB -Accounting Standards Board
Crossref
At the FASB, he was a board member, director of research and international activities and the chair of FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force
McConnell was a financial analyst and former member of the IASC board, becoming vice chairman in Posted: 1998
McGregor was the technical adviser to the Australian delegation and Chairman of the IASC's Insurance Steering Committee 4. Tweedie was the IASC's UK delegate 1995-2000 as Chair of the ASB
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
331,643
8 Citations
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Setting UK Standards on the Concept of Control: An Analysis of Lobbying Behaviour

By Renata Isabel Stenka and Peter Taylor

Small GAAP: A Large Jump for the IASB

By Carolyn J. Cordery and Rachel F. Baskerville

The Role of Expectancy Theory and Observed Constituency Response Levels to Exposure Drafts in Accounting Standard-Setting in New Zealand

By Rachel F. Baskerville

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies