Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reputation Repair after a Serious Restatement

Accounting Review, 2014

Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 14-20

Posted: 26 May 2014

Jivas Chakravarthy

University of Texas at Arlington - Department of Accounting

Ed deHaan

Stanford Graduate School of Business

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 25, 2014

Abstract

How do firms repair their reputations after a serious accounting restatement? To answer this question, we review firms’ press releases and identify 1,765 reputation-building actions taken by: (1) 94 restating firms in the periods before and after their restatement; and (2) a set of matched control firms during contemporaneous periods. We posit that firms have incentives to target multiple stakeholders in a reputation repair strategy — including capital providers, customers, employees, and geographic communities — and that actions targeting each group generate positive market returns as reputation capital is repaired. Consistent with our predictions, the frequency of, and stock returns to, reputation-building actions are greater for restating firms in the period after their restatement than for the control groups. In addition, firm characteristics predict the types of stakeholders targeted by firms. Finally, actions targeted at both capital providers and other stakeholders are associated with improvements in the restating firm’s financial reporting credibility.

Keywords: corporate reputation; accounting restatements; reputation repair; corporate social responsibility; earnings credibility

JEL Classification: M41, G39, D4

Suggested Citation:

Chakravarthy, Jivas and deHaan, Ed and Rajgopal, Shivaram, Reputation Repair after a Serious Restatement (May 25, 2014). Accounting Review, 2014, Stanford University Graduate School of Business Research Paper No. 14-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441654
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,424
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Stanford Graduate School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies