Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between a Credit and a Deduction for the Foreign Taxes of a Multinational Corporation

Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 14-23

24 Pages Posted: 28 May 2014 Last revised: 20 Jun 2014

Alvin C. Warren

Harvard Law School

Date Written: May 26, 2014

Abstract

A credit for foreign taxes paid by a multinational company is usually described as fundamentally different from a deduction for foreign taxes. The credit has been criticized for eliminating the taxpayer's incentive to reduce foreign taxes, whereas a deduction is said to maintain that incentive. On the other hand, the credit is traditionally defended as a method of eliminating double taxation of cross-border income, whereas the deduction is often criticized for producing multiple levels of taxation (and is therefore not an acceptable method of dealing with double taxation under the standard international tax treaties). The argument of this note is that a credit and a deduction for foreign taxes paid by a multinational company are not as different as the foregoing assertions would suggest. Indeed, credits and deductions can be interchangeable, with the distinction only a matter of labels or nominal tax rates.

Suggested Citation:

Warren, Alvin C., The Relationship between a Credit and a Deduction for the Foreign Taxes of a Multinational Corporation (May 26, 2014). Harvard Public Law Working Paper No. 14-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2442306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2442306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
310,241
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies