Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The State of Accounting in Egypt: A Case

Journal of Business Cases and Applications, Vol. 3

12 Pages Posted: 29 May 2014

Khaled M. Dahawy

The American University in Cairo

Nermeen F. Shehata

The American University in Cairo

Tad D. Ransopher

Georgia State University

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

Egypt, one of the largest Middle East economies, is beginning its transition to a market economy. As a developing nation, Egypt has witnessed several changes in its accounting system during last two decades. This case provides an analysis of the Egyptian accounting system with emphasis on the development of the Egyptian Accounting Standards. In addition, this case makes recommendations for the reformation of the Egyptian accounting system.

Keywords: Egypt, International accounting standards, Egyptian accounting standards, Egyptian accounting system, Privatization, Culture

JEL Classification: M40, M41, G38, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dahawy, Khaled M. and Shehata, Nermeen F. and Ransopher, Tad D., The State of Accounting in Egypt: A Case (2011). Journal of Business Cases and Applications, Vol. 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2442485
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
O H Abdelsalam , P Weetman
Introducing International Accounting Standards to an emerging capital market: relative familiarity and language effect in Egypt
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing and Taxation , volume 12 , p. 63 - 84 Posted: 2003
Crossref
American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt (ACCE). 1995. The capital market in Egypt
Business Service Division
R Ball
Making Accounting more international: why, how, and how far will it go
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 19 - 29 Posted: 1995
Crossref
R Bloom , J Fuglister , M Myring
The state of accounting in Armenia: a case
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 33 , issue 5 , p. 633 - 654 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
729
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,715
RANK
80,369
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies