Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Features of Internal Audit in Pharmaceutical Industry

PHARMACIA, Vol. 61, No. 2, 2014

5 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2014

Yulia Nedelcheva

South-West University "Neofit Rilski"

Date Written: May 31, 2014

Abstract

The review highlights the main features of internal audit by focus on distribution of medicinal products. Recent data suggest internal audit as an antidote to effects of economic recession. The present review reveals internal audit as a tool for competitiveness through implementation of good practices. The purpose of the review is to describe the advantages of internal audit in new institutional frame. The object of analysis is the distribution practice, and more concrete, the wholesale distributors. The analysis was perform by factor analysis and done in response to the tendency for outsource of distribution activities and practical interest in the use of internal audit by implementation of requirements and recommendations for good practices.

The results showed that the internal audit in pharmaceutical industry is determinate by two factors: regulatory requirements and complexity of supply chain. The external and the internal environment define five features of internal audit in pharmaceutical industry.

Keywords: internal audit, good practices, medicinal products

JEL Classification: F53, I18, M42

Suggested Citation:

Nedelcheva, Yulia, Features of Internal Audit in Pharmaceutical Industry (May 31, 2014). PHARMACIA, Vol. 61, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2444242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
I n s t i t u t e of Internal Auditors. International Professional Practices Framework Posted: 2013
E U R
Guidelines of 5 November 2013 on Good Distribution Practice of medicinal products for human use Posted: 2013
K M C C O R M I C K
Quality and Regulatory Compliance Posted: 2002
Quality Group. Pharmaceutical Auditing. Monograph , volume 5 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,848
RANK
228,448
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies