Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Personal Taxpayer Compliance Costs: Recent Evidence from Australia

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014

36 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2014

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Philip Lignier

University of Tasmania

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

This article reports on the tax compliance burden of Australian personal (non-business) taxpayers in the 2011-12 tax year. A survey of just over 4,000 individuals was conducted in late 2012 and average tax compliance costs were derived from the data and combined with macro-statistics to generate aggregate personal taxpayer compliance costs. The study demonstrates that personal taxpayer compliance costs have grown by about 73 per cent since 1995 and suggests that various technologically driven simplification initiatives undertaken by the government (such as e-tax and pre-filled income tax returns) have not been sufficient to slow down this growth in personal tax compliance costs.

Suggested Citation:

Tran-Nam, Binh and Evans, Christopher Charles and Lignier, Philip, Personal Taxpayer Compliance Costs: Recent Evidence from Australia (December 2, 2013). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29(1), 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2445789
Purchase - $45
4 References
Evans
Crossref
Evans
Crossref
All WPI series: Original (Financial year index numbers for year ended June quarter)' , Wage Price Index Posted: 2013-03
Expenditure on gross domestic product (GDP), chain volume measures and current prices, annual, Australia National Accounts: National Income, Expenditure and Product Posted: 2013-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,418
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies