Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Up in the Air Over Taxing Frequent Flyer Benefits: The American, Canadian, and Australian Experiences

Capital Markets Law Journal, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2014 Last revised: 4 Sep 2014

Lawrence Zelenak

Duke University School of Law

Date Written: June 4, 2014

Abstract

Since frequent flyer programs first appeared in the early 1980s, the agencies charged with the administration of their nations’ income tax laws have struggled with the question of whether – and if so how – to tax employees who earn frequent flyer points (or “miles”) on employer-paid business trips, and who eventually redeem those points for personal travel rewards (or other personal consumption services or goods). This article describes and evaluates the ways in which three agencies – the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), and the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) – have responded to the tax administration challenge presented by frequent flyer programs. The rather disheartening end of the story (in all three countries) is that no significant amount of tax is being collected on frequent flyer benefits, even though the benefits are clearly taxable in theory (at least in the United States and Canada), and that respect for the rule of law (on the part of both taxpayers and the agencies themselves) has been eroded. The article analyzes what features of frequent flyer programs are responsible for the tax agencies’ difficulties, and explains that taxing benefits involves serious problems of timing, valuation, enforcement, and public acceptance. Finally, the article considers how, in light of those problems, an agency (or legislature) could go about designing an effective system for taxing frequent flyer benefits. The task is not easy, but it is also not impossible.

Keywords: frequent flyer programs, tax administration, comparative law

Suggested Citation:

Zelenak, Lawrence A., Up in the Air Over Taxing Frequent Flyer Benefits: The American, Canadian, and Australian Experiences (June 4, 2014). Capital Markets Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,531
RANK
429,779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies