Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Investors Respond to Explanatory Language Included in Unqualified Audit Reports?

54 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2014 Last revised: 2 Nov 2017

Keith Czerney

University of Missouri-Columbia; Charles River Associates (CRA) - Finance

Jaime J. Schmidt

University of Texas at Austin

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates whether investors respond to explanatory language added to unqualified audit reports. Although prior research finds an association between auditor explanatory language and lower financial reporting quality, surveys suggest that many investors limit their attention to the unqualified nature of the opinion. We use three-day abnormal returns and abnormal trading volume to measure investor response to explanatory language in unqualified audit reports issued from 2000-2014. We find little evidence to indicate that investors respond to auditor explanatory language at the audit report release date. In further analyses, we find that the lack of investor response is attributable both to incomplete investor reactions (55 percent of explanatory language occurrences) and previous incorporation of explanatory language (40 percent of explanatory language occurrences). Overall, the results support policymakers’ initiatives to improve the usefulness of unqualified audit reports.

Keywords: explanatory language, audit reports, investor reaction

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Czerney, Keith and Schmidt, Jaime J. and Thompson, Anne, Do Investors Respond to Explanatory Language Included in Unqualified Audit Reports? (October 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446708 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2446708
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
S K Asare , A Wright
Investors', auditors', and lenders' understanding of the message conveyed by the standard audit report on the financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 193 - 217 Posted: 2012
Crossref
E Carson , N L Fargher , M A Geiger , C S Lennox , K Raghunandan , M Willekens
Audit reporting for going-concern uncertainty: A research synthesis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 32 , p. 353 - 384 Posted: 2013
Crossref
C A Cassell , L A Myers , T A Seidel
Disclosure transparency about activity in valuation allowance and reserve accounts and accruals-based earnings management. Accounting
Organizations & Society , volume 46 , p. 23 - 38 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Cfa Institute
Usefulness of the Independent Auditor's Report: Survey to the CFA Institute Financial Reporting Survey Pool Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
667
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,766
RANK
90,077
10 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies