Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Alms to the Rich: The Façade Easement Deduction

Virginia Tax Review, Forthcoming

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-11

38 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2014 Last revised: 25 Jun 2014

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: June 9, 2014

Abstract

This article presents the case for repeal of the façade easement deduction. Proponents of this benefit argue that the deduction encourages historic preservation by reimbursing property owners for relinquishing their right to alter the façade of their property in a way inconsistent with that conservation goal; however, this article shows that there are many reasons to urge its repeal: the revenue loss, the small number of beneficiaries, the financial demographics of that group of beneficiaries; the dubious industries that are supported by the deduction; and the continual marked overvaluation and abuse despite Congressional, court, and administrative review and expense.

After the last major reform effort, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), in 2009, only 94 taxpayers claimed the façade easement charitable deduction with an average return deduction of $477,225. While there may be a desire to retain a tax benefit with purported charitable aims, the long history of unbridled abuse even with repeated legislative and administrative response should make it clear that amending the façade easement deduction is an unending proposition. In today’s world, real estate is often subject to regulation that buyers and their neighbors accept in order to retain and increase a community’s property values. The very wealthiest of homeowners who purchase homes in historic districts willingly accept local restrictions on their property’s use. There is no evidence that façade easements significantly alter the behavior of property owners. It provides them with huge tax savings for doing what they would do anyway.

Keywords: facade easement, conservation easement, charitable deduction, split interest, real property regulation, Pension Protection Act of 2006

JEL Classification: H2, H10, H24, H26, H29, K11, K32, K34, L30, L31

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., Alms to the Rich: The Façade Easement Deduction (June 9, 2014). Virginia Tax Review, Forthcoming, University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
See Wendy C. Gerzog, Mortgage and Conservation Easements: Not a Good Mix
Tax Notes , volume 437 Posted: 2011-07-25
after the trial, the government amended its answer to increase the taxpayers' 2004 deficiency and to assess an accuracy-related penalty , volume 16 Posted: 2004-06
Id
See Income Tax Reg. § 1.170A-14(g). Kaufman I, 134 T.C
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,580
RANK
459,276
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies