Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carrot or Stick? The Shift from Voluntary to Mandatory Disclosure of Risk Factors

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-013

60 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2014 Last revised: 30 Jun 2015

Karen K. Nelson

Texas Christian University - Department of Accounting

Adam C. Pritchard

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: June 29, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates risk factor disclosures, examining both the voluntary, incentive-based disclosure regime provided by the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act as well as the SEC’s subsequent mandate of these disclosures. Firms subject to greater litigation risk disclose more risk factors, update the language more from year-to-year, and use more readable language than firms with lower litigation risk. These differences in the quality of disclosure are pronounced in the voluntary disclosure regime, but converge following the SEC mandate, as low risk firms improved the quality of their risk factor disclosures. Consistent with these findings, the risk factor disclosures of high litigation risk firms are significantly more informative about systematic and idiosyncratic firm risk when disclosure is voluntary but not when disclosure is mandated. Overall, the results suggest that for some firms voluntary disclosure of risk factors is not a substitute for a regulatory mandate.

Keywords: risk factors, disclosure regulation, litigation risk, information content

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Karen K. and Pritchard, Adam C., Carrot or Stick? The Shift from Voluntary to Mandatory Disclosure of Risk Factors (June 29, 2015). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447066 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2447066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
S P Baginski , J M Hassell , &amp; M D Kimbrough
The Effect of Legal Environment on Voluntary Disclosure: Evidence from Management Earnings Forecasts Issued in U.S. and Canadian Markets
The Accounting Review , volume 25 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J-H Bao , J A Malcolm
Text Similarity in Academic Conference Papers Posted: 2006
B Bushee , &amp; C Leuz
Economic Consequences of SEC Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from the OTC Bulletin Board
39 Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 233 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Campbell , H Chen , D Dhaliwal , H Lu , &amp; L Steele
The Information Content of Mandatory Risk Factor Disclosures in Corporate Filings
19 Review of Accounting Studies , volume 396 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
748
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,990
RANK
77,750
18 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Risk Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies