Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Influential Factors on Acceptance of IT among Accountants

ARPN Journal of Systems and Software, Vol.4, No.3, 2014

5 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2014

Morteza Ramazani

Young Researchers and Elite Club, Zanjan Branch, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan, Iran

Akbar Allahyari

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Abbas Ganbari

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Date Written: May 9, 2014

Abstract

The researcher tends to summarize the results of his previous studies about the acceptance of IT in accounting profession here, which had put the individual, social and organizational influential factors into investigation and testing, in three separate and detailed papers.

Keywords: Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, Organization Factors, Individual Factors, Social Factors, Accounting Profession

Suggested Citation:

Ramazani, Morteza and Allahyari, Akbar and Ganbari, Abbas, Examining the Influential Factors on Acceptance of IT among Accountants (May 9, 2014). ARPN Journal of Systems and Software, Vol.4, No.3, 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,310
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems: Behavioral & Social Methods eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies