Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Fund Disclosures Under the Dodd-Frank Act

9 Brook. J. Corp., Fin. & Com. L. 428 (2015)

47 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2014 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Wulf A. Kaal

University of St. Thomas - School of Law (Minnesota)

Date Written: June 7, 2014

Abstract

Title IV of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to collect sensitive proprietary information from private fund advisers. Prior studies suggest that the SEC’s mandated collection of private fund data in Form PF created several core challenges for the private fund industry and for the SEC. This article presents the results of a survey of SEC-registered investment advisers to private funds after the SEC’s first mandatory collection of private fund data.

The key findings of this study indicate that the majority of private fund advisers responding to the survey incurred less than $10,000.00 to prepare their initial data reporting to the SEC, with the cost of subsequent annual Form PF filings at about half the initial cost. Larger private fund advisers, required to file quarterly, are faced with substantially higher compliance cost, both for their initial data reporting and for subsequent quarterly filings. The data analysis in this study affirms SEC cost estimates for smaller private fund advisers’ Form PF compliance costs. The SEC appears to have overestimated the costs of Form PF compliance for larger private fund advisers.

While the data analysis in this study suggests that the overall effect of private fund disclosure requirements on the private fund industry is moderate, the data analysis also indicates that the data reporting requirements for private funds and the corresponding SEC forms can be further improved. The majority of SEC-registered private fund advisers identified the ambiguity of Form PF data reporting requirements as the most pressing issue. However, the majority of respondents also considered their existing reporting systems adequate for capturing the information required by the SEC and agreed with the SEC’s definitions and instructions for Form PF. Respondents predominantly assessed the best level of guidance available from the SEC staff to assist in private fund advisers’ data reporting efforts as sufficient or good.

Keywords: Private Funds, Dodd-Frank Act, Disclosure, Form PF, Survey Study

JEL Classification: G23, G24, G28, K22

Suggested Citation:

Kaal, Wulf A., Private Fund Disclosures Under the Dodd-Frank Act (June 7, 2014). 9 Brook. J. Corp., Fin. & Com. L. 428 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2447306 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2447306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Peter See , Statistical Jones , Sampling , Risk Analysis
, p. 11 - 12 Posted: 1999
Donald A Leslie , Al
Posted: 1980
Crossref
Arthur J
Crossref
Practical Wilburn , Statistical , For Auditors
Posted: 1984
Load more
1 Citations
Wulf A. Kaal
What Drives Dodd-Frank Act Compliance Cost for Private Funds?
The Journal of Alternative Investments (2016), U of St. Thomas (Minnesota) Legal Studies Research Paper No. 15-13, <a href='https://doi.org/10.3905/jai.2016.19.1.008'>https://doi.org/10.3905/jai.2016.19.1.008</a> · Posted: 11 Jul 2015 · Last revised: 22 May 2019 · Downloads: 0
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,815
RANK
220,537
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of St. Thomas School of Law (Minnesota) Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies