Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Deduction Properly Extinguished? The Live-Burn Donation: A Proposed Sequence of Analysis and Policy Evaluation

33 Va. Tax. Rev. 459

38 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2014 Last revised: 27 Oct 2019

Eric Smith

Weber State University (WSU)

Date Written: June 10, 2014

Abstract

This article updates the literature analyzing the charitable deduction associated with live-burn donations. This deduction has been the subject of multiple recent Tax and appellate Court rulings, all of which have disallowed the deduction. The article examines and reconciles the resulting live-burn donation line of cases. It agrees with prior scholarship finding that the courts’ treatment of the deduction has rendered it ineffective as a tax planning tool, but proposes a theoretical sequence of analysis to gauge the state of the law and determine whether any avenue remains which leads to deduction. Scholarly response to the disallowance of the live-burn donation has been generally negative. In contrast to these positions in the literature, this article finds that denial of a deduction for live-burn donations is consistent with and reconcilable on grounds of traditional tax policy notions of equity and fairness. Despite the live-burn donation’s initial acceptance on the basis of public benefit, the doctrine is fundamentally vulnerable on multiple fronts: it pushes the bounds of vertical equity, it disproportionately favors the wealthy, it undermines traditional concepts of charitable intent, and it provides an excessive private benefit in exchange for a public benefit which is too difficult to measure or quantify.

Keywords: charitable deduction, live burn donation, quid pro quo, partial interest

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Eric Steven, A Deduction Properly Extinguished? The Live-Burn Donation: A Proposed Sequence of Analysis and Policy Evaluation (June 10, 2014). 33 Va. Tax. Rev. 459, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
383,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies