Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Resident Income Tax Credit: Did Maryland Misapply the Commerce Clause?

State Tax Notes, Vol. 72, No. 9, p. 523, 2014

7 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2014

Robert J. Firestone

New York City Tax Appeals Tribunal

Date Written: June 2, 2014

Abstract

In this article, the author argues that the Maryland Court of Appeals erred in its decision in Wynne v. Treasury and that the court's rationale, if applied throughout the country, would undermine the privileges and immunities clause and the states' authority to tax their residents.

Keywords: Wynn, income tax credit, resident, dormant commerce clause, commerce clause, privileges and immunities, resident income tax, Maryland

Suggested Citation:

Firestone, Robert J., The Resident Income Tax Credit: Did Maryland Misapply the Commerce Clause? (June 2, 2014). State Tax Notes, Vol. 72, No. 9, p. 523, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2448990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
For a state to tax income generated in interstate commerce, the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment imposes two requirements: a ''minimal connection'' between the interstate activities and the taxing State
A tax that unfairly apportions income from other states is a form of discrimination against interstate commerce , p. 644 - 645
Cf Woolworth
New Mexico Taxation Dept , volume 354 , p. 357 - 358 Posted: 1982
See also Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U.S. 193 (1936) (recognizing a state's power to tax intangibles at corporation's domicile). The rationale for taxing the income from intangible property based on the owner's domicile derives from a legal fiction employed in the property tax , p. 444 - 445
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
870
RANK
864,731
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies