Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In Search of Interaction

69 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2014 Last revised: 31 Mar 2016

Shuping Chen

University of Texas at Austin - McCombs School of Business

Stephan Hollander

Tilburg University - Tilburg School of Economics and Management

Kelvin Law

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Date Written: March 30, 2016

Abstract

Corporate managers increasingly employ interactive media to communicate with market participants. Exploiting the live, interactive nature of conference call question-and-answer (Q&A) sessions, in which participants get the opportunity to ask their questions, our analysis reveals that conference calls oftentimes pass with an inadequate number of questions raised by the participants. In the post-Regulation Fair Disclosure world, this practice makes information acquisition and interpretation more costly, particularly for less sophisticated investors. We find that, when no one asks questions, firms experience a 13 percent smaller reduction in bid-ask spread and downward pressure on their stock price (i.e., next-day abnormal return is 72 basis points lower), consistent with a cost disadvantage. Our results hold across three identification strategies, and extend to calls in which the number of questions raised falls far below expectations.

Keywords: Interactive communication, information asymmetry, conference calls

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G14

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Shuping and Hollander, Stephan and Law, Kelvin, In Search of Interaction (March 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2449341 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2449341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Amiram , E Owens , O Rozenbaum
Do information releases increase or decrease information asymmetry? New evidence from analyst forecast announcements. Working paper Columbia University Posted: 2013
Crossref
W Bailey , H Li , C Mao , R Zhong
Regulation Fair Disclosure and earnings information: Market, analyst, and corporate responses
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 2487 - 514 Posted: 2003
Crossref
K Balakrishnan , M Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping liquidity: On the causal effects of voluntary disclosure
Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 78 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B Barber , J Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 72 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
690
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,941
RANK
86,216
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies