Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LexisNexis® Guide to FATCA Compliance (Chapter 1, Background and Current Status of FATCA)

LEXISNEXIS® GUIDE TO FATCA COMPLIANCE, LexisNexis®, 2d Edition, 2014

Thomas Jefferson School of Law Research Paper No. 2457671

58 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2014

William Byrnes

Texas A&M University School of Law

Denis Kleinfeld

Independent

Alberto Gil Soriano

Uría Menéndez Abogados, S.L.P.

Date Written: February 1, 2014

Abstract

The second edition of the "LexisNexis® Guide to FATCA Compliance," discussing the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of 2010 (FATCA), has been vastly improved based on over thirty in-house workshops and interviews with tier 1 banks, company and trust service providers, government revenue departments, and central banks. The enterprises are headquartered in the Caribbean, Latin America, Asia, Europe, and the United States, as are the revenue departments and the central bank staff interviewed.

Chapter 1 of the book, "Background and Current Status of FATCA," is available here for free download on SSRN, and also from LexisNexis. The full book is available for purchase from LexisNexis. See weblinks provided in attached PDF. Chapter 1 is primarily authored by Associate Dean William H. Byrnes, IV, of Thomas Jefferson School of Law's Walter H. & Dorothy B. Diamond International Tax & Financial Services Program, with contributions by Professor Denis Kleinfeld and Dr. Alberto Gil Soriano. The lead author and editor of the overall book is Dean Byrnes (with Dr. Robert J. Munro).

The second edition of the book has been expanded from 25 to 34 chapters, with 150 new pages of regulatory and compliance analysis based upon industry feedback of internal challenges with systems implementation. The 25 chapters in the previous edition have been substantially updated, including many more practical examples, to assist a compliance officer in contextualizing the relevant regulations, provisions of inter-governmental agreements (IGAs), and national rules enacted pursuant to IGAs.

The nine new chapters in this second edition include, for example, an in-depth analysis of the categorization of trusts pursuant to the regulations and IGAs, operational specificity of the mechanisms of information capture, management, and exchange by firms and between countries, insights as to the application of FATCA, and the IGAs within new BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China) and European country chapters.

This second edition will provide the financial enterprise's FATCA compliance officer with the tools needed for developing and maintaining a best practices compliance strategy, starting with determining what information is needed for planning the meetings with outside FATCA experts.

Keywords: FATCA, offshore, international tax, tax haven, intergovernmental agreement, IGA, tax compliance, GATCA, Common Reporting System, OECD

JEL Classification: H26, H20, K34, K33, H25

Suggested Citation:

Byrnes, IV, William H. and Kleinfeld, Denis and Gil Soriano, Alberto, LexisNexis® Guide to FATCA Compliance (Chapter 1, Background and Current Status of FATCA) (February 1, 2014). LEXISNEXIS® GUIDE TO FATCA COMPLIANCE, LexisNexis®, 2d Edition, 2014, Thomas Jefferson School of Law Research Paper No. 2457671, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2457671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
James G Jatras
Senator Rand Paul introduces Bill to repeal FATCA
Repealfatca.com Posted: 2013-05-08
Maxime Fischer-Zernin
Rand Paul 2016: Fight against tax-haven Bill could hint at presidential run Posted: 2013-05-10
See Jack Townsend&apos;s Blog
Posted: 2013-11-15
Crossref
Guidance on Reporting Interest Paid to Nonresident Aliens, 77 Fed Reg , volume 23 Posted: 2012-04-19
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,037
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,739
RANK
18,084
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Thomas Jefferson School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies