Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accounting Firm Consulting Revenues Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from the Pre- and Post-SOX Eras

Contemporary Accounting Research, Volume 36, Issue 2, Pages 1028-1054, 2019

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2014 Last revised: 29 May 2019

Ling Lei Lisic

Virginia Tech - Pamplin College of Business

Linda A. Myers

University of Tennessee, Haslam College of Business, Accounting and Information Management

Robert J. Pawlewicz

University of Richmond - Accounting

Timothy A. Seidel

Brigham Young University

Date Written: November 2017

Abstract

In recent years, public accounting firms have experienced a steady increase in the proportion of their revenues generated from consulting services. Although growth in consulting revenue following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) has been generated primarily from services provided to nonaudit clients, regulators have expressed concerns about the potential implications of this increase for audit quality. In contrast, accounting firms assert that the expertise developed by their consulting professionals helps them to provide better quality audits. We examine the relation between the proportion of accounting firm consulting revenue to total revenue and audit quality and investor perceptions of audit quality. Because SOX drastically altered the source of consulting revenues for public accounting firms, we also separately examine these relations in the pre- and post-SOX eras. We find evidence suggesting that before SOX, higher proportions of audit firm consulting revenues negatively impacted both audit quality and investor perceptions of audit quality. However, we do not find a statistically significant association between audit firm consulting revenues and either audit quality or investor perceptions of audit quality following SOX. Our analyses suggest that even if these relations exist following SOX, the potential economic magnitude of the effect is small.

Keywords: accounting firms, audit quality, consulting services, nonaudit services

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Lisic, Ling Lei and Myers, Linda A. and Pawlewicz, Robert J. and Seidel, Timothy A., Do Accounting Firm Consulting Revenues Affect Audit Quality? Evidence from the Pre- and Post-SOX Eras (November 2017). Contemporary Accounting Research, Volume 36, Issue 2, Pages 1028-1054, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2460102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Final Report of the Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession to The U.S. Department of the Treasury
The Department of the Treasury Posted: 2008
D Aobdia
The validity of publicly available measures of audit quality. Evidence from the PCAOB inspection data. Working paper, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Posted: 2017
Crossref
B E Ashforth , F Mael
Social identity theory and the organization
Academy of Management Review , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 20 - 39 Posted: 1989
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B W Mayhew
Do nonaudit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 611 - 650 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
937
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,132
RANK
57,243
15 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies