Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Protecting the Best Interests of the Client

(2014) 29 Australian Journal of Corporate Law 8

15 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2014

Paul Latimer

Swinburne University of Technology - Swinburne Law School

Date Written: March 15, 2014

Abstract

The new ‘best interests’ duty in the Future of Financial Advice (FOFA) amendments to the Corporations Act in 2012 builds on the former ‘know your client’ statutory duty owed by the financial services licensee (the advice provider) to the client. It co-exists with - and has not replaced - the existing common law and equitable duties of advice providers, underpinned in some circumstances by fiduciary duties in equity. The new statutory duty for an advice provider to act in the best interests of the client is fulfilled by satisfying a six-part checklist including identifying the client’s objectives, financial situation and needs and conducting a reasonable investigation into all financial products available to the client. In addition, the new best interest duty confirms the potential professionalism of the advice provider when it includes a catchall which requires the advice provider to take ‘any other step that …would reasonably be regarded as being in the best interests of the client’ in s 961B(2)(g). This catchall has been criticised by some sectors of the financial planning industry as open-ended and allegedly too uncertain because it is said to make the six-part checklist unworkable for advice providers. In the same way that it would not be too uncertain for a medical practitioner to be expected to consider ‘any other step’ in the treatment of a patient, FOFA has presented those in the financial planning industry with the opportunity to think outside the checklist when offering advice. The industry has come a long way since the days when many advice providers were commission salesman for product manufacturers, and the financial planning industry should embrace the best interests duty and its catchall as an opportunity to take one more step towards professionalising the industry rather turning back the clock by lobbying for and supporting its ‘streamlining’ (reduction) in 2014.

Keywords: Financial planners, stockbrokers, securities commission, financial markets

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Latimer, Paul, Protecting the Best Interests of the Client (March 15, 2014). (2014) 29 Australian Journal of Corporate Law 8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460187
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
The know your client duty was enforceable administratively (by, eg, ASIC suspending, cancelling or banning an AFSL), by civil action (damages, civil penalties) or by criminal penalties (s 1311(1) and schedule 3). Further civil action was available, eg, for misleading or deceptive conduct and/or for false representations
Ripoll Report, above n 19 at 150 (recommendation, then described as a 'fiduciary duty')
7A (Best interests obligations and remuneration), based on Ripoll Report, above n 19, Recommendation 1 -that there be a statutory fiduciary duty for financial advisers -at para 6.29-6
Corporations Act , volume 7 Posted: 2001-01
The Superannuation Trustee: Are Fiduciary Obligations and Standards Appropriate?' (2007) 1 Journal of Equity 167 at 180 and D Mendoza-Jones, 'Superannuation Trustees: Governance, Best Interests, Conflicts of Interest and the Proposed Reforms' (2012) 30 C&SLJ 297, both cited in Mendoza-Jones, above n 17 at 267. Case law on the best interests of trustees requires trustees to exercise their powers in the best interests of present and future beneficiaries of the trust Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
285
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,537
RANK
244,564
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies