Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Let's Get Together': Collaborative Tax Regulation

Pittsburgh Tax Review, 11 Pitt. Tax Rev. 49 (2013)

66 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2014

Danshera Cords

Albany Law School

Date Written: June 30, 2013

Abstract

In many agencies there is an effort to bring the public into the rulemaking process. Like many agencies, the Internal Revenue Service seeks public comments on its proposed regulations, However, once a regulation has reached the point where it is released for public comment the rule may be less malleable than the rule would be if input were solicited and encouraged at an earlier point in the process. The IRS does seek input from some groups as it plans its rulemaking priorities. This input may not truly reflect issues that are affecting large groups of taxpayers. Large taxpayer groups may be harder to reach because they are not organized, and representatives like low income taxpayer clinics may not have the same perspective as those they serve. This article encourages at least experimentation with some of collaborative rulemaking processes successfully used by other agencies. Earlier involvement of interested parties may result in better rules that are more enforceable and address all constituencies' concerns.

Suggested Citation:

Cords, Danshera, 'Let's Get Together': Collaborative Tax Regulation (June 30, 2013). Pittsburgh Tax Review, 11 Pitt. Tax Rev. 49 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2460813
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
In the years following the promulgation of Treas. Reg. § 1.6015-5, numerous scholars and practitioners have challenged the logic and legitimacy of the regulation. Smith, Innocent Spouse, supra note 245; Stokeld, supra note 245 Posted: 2009
Scott Shumacher
Innocent Spouse, Administrative Process: Time for Reform Posted: 2010
Crossref
Joseph Goeke
The equitable innocent spouse provision was added to the I.R.C. in IRSRRA 1998. It took several years before litigation resulted in a set of facts that was barred by the statute of limitations, but once cases started arriving at the U.S. Tax Court, there were a significant number of taxpayers affected by the statute. Three Circuit Courts of Appeals reversed the Tax Court with respect to its invalidation of the regulation establishing a statute of limitations on equitable innocent spouse cases. Jones v. Comm'r, 642 F
Tax Court Stands by its Holding in Lantz that Equitable Innocent Spouse Relief Reg is Invalid, 2010 TAX NOTES TODAY , volume 3 Posted: 2010
invalidating the period of limitations), rev'd, 631 F Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
RANK
799,009
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies