Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Concentrated Enforcement in a Best-Case Tax Enforcement Regime

2014 IRS Research Bulletin

14 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2014 Last revised: 17 Oct 2014

Leigh Osofsky

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill

Date Written: July 3, 2014

Abstract

In this Article, I set forth a theory (“concentrated enforcement”) for allocating scarce enforcement resources within a low compliance tax sector. The intuition behind concentrated enforcement is that, under a number of different circumstances, there may be increasing marginal returns to enforcement resources and psychological factors that support concentration. This Article begins by setting forth the notion of a best-case tax enforcement regime, which would allocate scarce tax enforcement resources to maximize the combination of direct revenue and voluntary compliance. The Article then examines some empirical evidence from the criminology context which suggests that, under certain circumstances, concentration of enforcement may be critical to voluntary compliance. The bulk of the Article draws on a number of different disciplines to set forth the conditions under which concentrated enforcement may increase voluntary compliance and explore how it might work in the particularly problematic cash business tax sector. The question of when concentrated enforcement can increase compliance is not merely theoretical. As I explain in this Article, concentrated tax enforcement, in the form of project-based enforcement, already exists in practice. By exploring the conditions under which concentrated enforcement can increase compliance, this Article can help explain and improve existing practice, as well as guide future research. While ultimately determining when concentrated enforcement does increase voluntary compliance requires experimental application and evaluation, examining the conditions under which concentrated enforcement is likely to increase voluntary compliance and the evidence of such conditions is the first step toward such experimentation. This Article takes this first, necessary step toward thinking about concentrated enforcement as part of a best-case tax enforcement regime.

Suggested Citation:

Osofsky, Leigh, Concentrated Enforcement in a Best-Case Tax Enforcement Regime (July 3, 2014). 2014 IRS Research Bulletin, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2462147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
James Alm , Michael Mckee
Tax Compliance as a Coordination Game
Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 297 - 312 Posted: 2004
Crossref
James Alm , Michael Mckee
Audit Certainty, Audit Productivity, and Taxpayer Compliance
National Tax Journal , volume 59 , issue 4 , p. 801 - 816 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Joseph Bankman
Eight Truths About Collecting Taxes from the Cash Economy
Tax Notes October , volume 29 Posted: 2007
Marsha Blumenthal , Charles Christian , Joel Slemrod
Do Normative Appeals Affect Tax Compliance? Evidence from a Controlled Experiment in Minnesota
National Tax Journal , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 125 - 138 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
514,796
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies