Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revised IRS Appeals Procedures Re: FBAR Penalties

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Dec. 2013-Jan. 2014

5 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2014

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: December 1, 2013

Abstract

The IRS revised the Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) providing guidance and clarification regarding the administrative review of FBAR penalties by the IRS Office of Appeals. The IRM is essentially the operational manual providing guidance and procedures for the various functions carried out by the IRS.

The Office of Appeals serves as the administrative dispute resolution forum for any taxpayer contesting an IRS compliance action. It has long been Appeals’ mission to “resolve tax controversies, without litigation, on a basis that is fair and impartial to both the Government and the taxpayer in a manner that will enhance voluntary compliance and public confidence in the integrity and efficiency of the Service.”

Post-assessed FBAR penalties in excess of $100,000 cannot be compromised by Appeals without approval of the Department of Justice (DOJ). See 31 USC 3711(a)(2) and 31 CFR §902.1(a) and (b). Once assessed, the FBAR penalty becomes a claim of the U.S. Government. Typically, the FBAR penalty case will usually be received in Appeals pre-assessment. However, upon request, Appeals will also conduct post-assessment hearings as provided in Title 31 CFR 5.4 and 900 to consider FBAR penalty liability and collection issues.

ADR rights are not available for post-assessment FBAR penalty cases. However, Fast Track Settlement (FTS) is available for pre-assessed FBAR penalties only if the 30-Day Letter (Letter 3709) has not been issued. In FTS, the IRS Appeals Officer uses mediation techniques to focus issues and lead examiner and the taxpayer to determine the outcome of the dispute. If resolution is not reached through mediation, the Appeals mediator will propose a resolution, but such proposal is not imposed on either party. If FTS is unsuccessful in reaching a resolution, a taxpayer is not precluded from requesting traditional Appeals consideration.

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Revised IRS Appeals Procedures Re: FBAR Penalties (December 1, 2013). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Dec. 2013-Jan. 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2462229
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Mcbride , Dc-Ut
, volume 666 , p. 908 - 910 Posted: 2012-02-50
Crossref
Safeco Insurance Co , Sct
at 57; cf
Illinois Central R. Co , p. 242 - 285 Posted: 1938
See Safeco Insurance , Co
American Arms Int&apos;l V , Herbert
CA-4 , volume 563 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
713,739
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies