Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Portability, Marital Wealth Transfers, and the Taxable Unit

Controversies in Tax Law: A Matter of Perspective (Anthony C. Infanti ed.) (Ashgate), April 2015

21 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2014 Last revised: 14 Jun 2019

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: July 6, 2014

Abstract

Prior to 2011, the most efficient estate tax planning for married couples required a minimal level of asset equalization. In order to take maximum advantage of all existing wealth transfer tax exemptions and credits, each spouse needed to own, in an estate tax sense, enough assets to be able to fully utilize the estate tax credit or applicable exemption. This changed with the enactment of estate tax portability in the Economic Growth and Economic Recovery and Relief Act of 2011, which became permanent under the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012. “Portability” refers to the ability of a surviving spouse to make full use of his or her predeceased spouse’s unused exemption from estate tax. In an era of portability, if the less-wealthy member of a married couple dies first, he or she no longer “wastes” that exemption. It simply “ports” — or carries over — to the survivor.

At first glance, portability appears to implicate theoretical concerns, as it functions as a modern-day coverture that “merges” spouses into one unit. Furthermore, portability discourages some lifetime transfers of property to the less-wealthy spouse, who is more likely to be female. On the other hand, portability simplifies tax planning and benefits both spouses in a marriage. Portability was envisioned as a congressional “kiss” to a loving couple who sees itself as a unit. Yet the tax benefit is available regardless of whether the couple does in fact function as an economic unit, raising tax policy questions about the appropriateness of using the married couple as the primary tax unit. On balance, however, portability is a salutary addition to the law of wealth transfer taxation that minimizes complexity in estate planning and likely reduces the use of certain QTIP trusts, which minimize the autonomy of the surviving spouse, typically the woman, because a QTIP trust allows the marital deduction for one spouse’s transfer of the underlying property to a third party and not to the other spouse.

Keywords: estate tax, portability, applicable exemption, unified credit, QTIP, trusts, trust, gender, women, tax

JEL Classification: K19, K34

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Bridget J. and Gerzog, Wendy C., Portability, Marital Wealth Transfers, and the Taxable Unit (July 6, 2014). Controversies in Tax Law: A Matter of Perspective (Anthony C. Infanti ed.) (Ashgate), April 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2462991
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,796
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies