Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Improve Efficiency in Budgeting - The Case of Business Intelligence in SMEs

European Journal of Management, 13(2): 109-120, 2013

12 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2014

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Shijia Lu

Aarhus University - School of Business and Social Sciences

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

While budgets are highly relevant for a wide array of organizations, the process of budgeting is often subject to critique due to the high resources spent on data processing (Lalli 2003). The aim of this article is to illustrate how standard software for business intelligence (BI) can enable even small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to increase efficiency in budgeting. For this, we participated in a change of the budgeting process at a Chinese-Danish public organization (interventionist research). Our findings provide several contributions to existing theory of budgeting and BI for SMEs: First, we suggest that budgeting inefficiency (terms of the time spent) is caused by low-quality data. Consistent with Miller & Galeaz (2007), this low data quality is rooted in problems that participants of the budgeting process encounter; specifically lacks of understandability, simplicity, and user-friendliness of the IT-solution. Second, we illustrate that affordable, standard BI-solutions can address these problems and substantially improve the budgeting process within short time frames. Third, we develop a comprehensive mediation model of budgeting efficiency for future research.

Keywords: Budgeting; small and medium sized enterprise (SME); public sector; non-profit; business intelligence (BI); spreadsheet modeling; object-oriented programming (OOP), Visual Basic for applications (VBA)

JEL Classification: M10

Suggested Citation:

Lueg, Rainer and Lu, Shijia, How to Improve Efficiency in Budgeting - The Case of Business Intelligence in SMEs (2013). European Journal of Management, 13(2): 109-120, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
APPENDIX -Algorithm of the command button 'compensation calculating' REFERENCES
A A Andolsen
Does Your RIM Program Need a Strategic Alignment?
Information Management Journal , volume 41 , issue 4 , p. 35 - 40 Posted: 2007
A A Atkinson , R S Kaplan , E M Matsumura , S M Young
Management accounting Posted: 2011
R Breu
Algebraic specification techniques in object oriented programming environments Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,912
RANK
29,459
3 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies