Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing: A Tax Avoidance Tool of Multinational Corporations

15 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2014

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: July 7, 2014

Abstract

The main thrust of this study is to examine how Multinational Corporations (MNCs) use transfer pricing practices to reduce taxable profit with a view to recommend how such practices could be minimised, to enhance the tax revenues of their host countries. This was done empirically using various studies on transfer pricing and taxation. The study concludes that various MNCs take advantage of different tax rates charged in different jurisdictions to minimise the groups’ tax liabilities. This is done by using transfer pricing practices to shift profit from high-tax jurisdictions to low-tax jurisdictions. Multinational corporations as integrated entities exploit international differentials and generate integration economies by setting transfer prices that are unlikely to be the same prices arms length parties would negotiate. Tax authorities should be aware of the need to publish documentations requirements concerning transfer pricing, so as to improve on monitoring of MNCs transfer pricing compliance. Transfer pricing must be provided to tax authorities for computation of both border, and corporate income taxes. This is necessary since the activities of MNCs cut across national borders.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Multinational Corporation, Taxation

JEL Classification: M14

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye, Transfer Pricing: A Tax Avoidance Tool of Multinational Corporations (July 7, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463201 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2463201
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A A Adeniyi
An Insight to Management Accounting, 4 Posted: 2008
E A Augustine
International Transfer Pricing Regulation: Nigerian Experience
JORIND , issue 9 Posted: 2011
A Bernard , J Bradford , Peter K S
Posted: 2008
Crossref
Based Multinational Firms, US Census Bureau: Centre for Economic Studies Discussion Paper
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,358
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,541
RANK
14,253
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies