Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are You Sure About What You Mean by ‘Uncertainty’? The Actor's Perspective vs. The Institutional Perspective

Proceedings of Pragmatic Constructivism, 2(2): 51-58, 2012

8 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2014

Boris Borisov

Aarhus University

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: January 1, 2012

Abstract

This paper explicates theoretical and methodological differences between Archival Environmental Uncertainty (AEU) and Perceived Environmental Uncertainty (PEU). Conceptually, we discuss the controversial development of the concepts in a literature review. We propose a reconciling framework which emphasizes that AEU and PEU differ due to the specificity of the decision unit, the predictability of change, and the use of leading indicators. We conclude that future conceptual work could further refine AEU- and PEU-measures; especially a better distinction between AEU and ‘risk’ is warranted. Empirically, we are the first ones to investigate the statistical association between prevailing measures of AEU (Tosi et al., 1973; Dess and Beard, 1984) and PEU (Miller, 1993). Our analysis combines archival data on AEU (annual reports) with survey data on PEU from top executives of the 110 largest listed German companies (55% response rate) by using time series-, factor- and correlation-analyses. Our findings show — as predicted — that AEU and PEU correlate moderately on a significant level. Yet, adjustment of the AEU-measure for predictable changes does not increase the strength of this correlation. This implies that future empirical work should focus more on the specificity of the decision unit and the use of leading indicators than on adjusting the predictability of change.

Keywords: Environmental uncertainty; perceived; archival; methodology; objective; correlation

JEL Classification: M10

Suggested Citation:

Borisov, Boris and Lueg, Rainer, Are You Sure About What You Mean by ‘Uncertainty’? The Actor's Perspective vs. The Institutional Perspective (January 1, 2012). Proceedings of Pragmatic Constructivism, 2(2): 51-58, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2463883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
L J Bourgeois
Strategic goals, perceived uncertainty, and economic performance in volatile environments
Academy of Management Journal , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 548 - 573 Posted: 1985
Crossref
B K Boyd , G G Dess , A M A Rasheed
Divergence between archival and perceptual measures of the envrionment: causes and consequences , volume 18 , p. 204 - 226 Posted: 1993
Crossref
M Burkert , R Lueg
Differences in the sophistication of Value-based Management -The role of top executives
Management Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 22 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R H Chenhall
Management control systems design within its organizational context: findings from contingency-based research and directions for the future. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 127 - 168 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Rainer Lueg
Activity-Based Costing and Target Setting – A Case Study
7 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 376
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Boris Krastev , Rainer Lueg
DISAGGREGATED ESG DISCLOSURE AND ITS IMPACT ON RISK IN EMERGING MARKETS
26 Pages · Posted: 18 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rainer Lueg
Determinants of Customer Profitability Analyses
49 Pages · Posted: 7 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 117
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
268,746
3 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies