Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is a Broadly Based Mark-to-Market Tax Unconstitutional?

143 Tax Notes 952 (2014)

5 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2014

Gene Magidenko

Independent

Date Written: May 26, 2014

Abstract

In an April 14, 2014 article, Tax Analysts Chief Economist Martin A. Sullivan discusses the proposal by Eric Toder and Alan Viard to replace the corporate income tax with a broadly applicable and comprehensive mark-to-market approach, taxing the increases in the value of publicly traded stocks on an accrual basis. That approach would shift the direct burden of taxation from corporations to shareholders. The tax would be imposed regardless of whether gains were realized. Presumably, increases in share value, as reflected in the stock market price, would reflect undistributed corporate income.

This article takes no position on the value or viability of the proposal, but does address the one hurdle that may doom it. A broadly based federal mark-to-market tax on unrealized capital gains would almost certainly be unconstitutional unless apportioned among the states, which would be extraordinarily impractical and politically impossible.

Keywords: Mark-to-Market, Constitution

Suggested Citation:

Magidenko, Gene, Is a Broadly Based Mark-to-Market Tax Unconstitutional? (May 26, 2014). 143 Tax Notes 952 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,377
RANK
405,369
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies