Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Heisenberg's Uncertainty: An Analysis of Criminal Tax Pretextual Prosecutions in the Context of Breaking Bad's Notorious Anti-Hero

50 Tulsa L. Rev. 43 (2014)

31 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2014 Last revised: 7 Nov 2014

Scott Shimick

Whiteman Osterman & Hanna LLP

Date Written: February 14, 2014

Abstract

Commentators have roundly criticized pretextual prosecutions, such as prosecuting Al Capone for tax evasion rather than bootlegging, arguing that the government should minimize the use of pretextual prosecutions. However, pretextual prosecutions serve as a valuable tool for law enforcement.

In Breaking Bad, Walter White becomes a violent criminal who produces and sells narcotics. Throughout the series, he is very careful to conceal or destroy any evidence linking him to the violence and drug trafficking. However, as the bootleggers and gangsters of the Prohibition-era learned, the government holds the trump card, criminal tax prosecution. By charging drug traffickers with criminal tax fraud, the government can imprison dangerous criminals without having to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the drug traffickers actually produced and sold narcotics. This article examines criminal tax fraud statutes and methods of proof, analyzing these statutes and methods in the context of whether Walter White should have fled from prosecution. Through this analysis, this article demonstrates the value of pretextual criminal tax fraud prosecutions.

Keywords: Tax Fraud, Criminal Tax Fraud, Pretextual Prosecution, Tax Crimes, Bank Deposits Method, Net Worth Method, Expenditures Method, Sentencing Guidelines, Tax, Internal Revenue Code, IRS, Internal Revenue Service, Tax Division, Breaking Bad, Walter White, Heisenberg, Willfully, Willfulness, Willful

Suggested Citation:

Shimick, Scott, Heisenberg's Uncertainty: An Analysis of Criminal Tax Pretextual Prosecutions in the Context of Breaking Bad's Notorious Anti-Hero (February 14, 2014). 50 Tulsa L. Rev. 43 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2465997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
expenditures, such as business expenses. Fowler v. United States, 352 F.2d , volume 100 Posted: 1965
Crossref
348 U Holland
Posted: 1981
Crossref
See United States v. Sorrentino, 726 F.2d , volume 876 , p. 879 - 80 Posted: 1984
348 U Holland
The government need not prove a specific source, but only a likely source , p. 1241 - 1283 Posted: 1971
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,582
RANK
499,164
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Law & Humanities eJournal

Follow

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies