Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dissecting Trading Statements of Malawian Listed Companies

11 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2015

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: February 17, 2015

Abstract

Malawi Stock Exchange Listing Rules require that listed companies should publish trading statements within thirty days prior to reporting period if profit will differ by about 20% from similar previous reporting period. The purpose of the trading statement is to alert users of the financial statements of any changes in the profitability of a reporting entity and aid in making informed decisions.

This study has however observed that in the current form and prevailing conditions, trading statements are misleading and do not serve any purpose as they appear not enforceable and there is confusion as to when trading statements must be issued out. Some entities have never issued trading statements since the listing raising doubt on their usability. The study therefore concludes that Malawi Stock Exchange should abolish listing rule for publication of trading statements but rather enforce earnings announcement periods to bring sanity to the sole capital market.

Keywords: Malawi, Trading, Statement, Stock Exchange, earnings, announcement

JEL Classification: D81, E37, E39, G14

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Dissecting Trading Statements of Malawian Listed Companies (February 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Rebecca Abraham , Charles Harrington
Predicting informed trading at merger announcements
Journal of Economic Studies , volume 40 , issue 5 , p. 658 - 670 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Financial Reporting (International) Paper 7 Study Text
BPP Learning Material Ltd Posted: 2009
Tony Beasley , Kevin Hapeshi , Roger Hussey
The audit status of preliminary profit announcements
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 12 , p. 135 - 141 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Niamh M Brennan , Mary Mcgrath
Financial Statement Fraud: Some Lessons from US and European Case Studies
Australian Accounting Review , volume 17 , p. 49 - 61 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,605
RANK
576,212
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies