Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For the Accounting Profession, Leadership Matters Regarding Ethical Climate Perceptions

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2014

39 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2014

Jeffrey N. Barnes

Southern Utah University

David S. Christensen

Southern Utah University

Tyler Stillman

Southern Utah University

Date Written: January 14, 2014

Abstract

We tested the hypothesis advanced by Mannarelli (2006) and Early and Davenport (2010) that professional accounting organizations would benefit from a transformational leadership style. Eleven CPA firms were surveyed to test the correlative relationship between three perceived leadership styles (i.e., transformational, transactional, and passive-avoidant) and the workplace ethical climate (i.e., caring, law code, rules, instrumental, and independence). Using the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (Bass & Avolio, 2010) and the Ethical Climate Questionnaire (Victor & Cullen, 1988), data provided by 103 respondents showed that transformational leadership style is the most effective, transactional is not effective, and passive-avoidant leadership style is deleterious to subordinates’ perception of the preferred ethical climates.

Keywords: Accounting Profession, Leadership, Ethical Climate, Transformational Leadership

JEL Classification: C30, L20, M40, Y10

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Jeffrey N. and Christensen, David S. and Stillman, Tyler, For the Accounting Profession, Leadership Matters Regarding Ethical Climate Perceptions (January 14, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467091
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Aicpa
CPA Horizons Posted: 2013
Aicpa
Four pillars of effective leadership
Ethics & Public Policy , volume 127 Posted: 2013
J Antonakis , R J House
Transformation and charismatic leadership: The road ahead. The Full-Range Leadership Theory: The Way Forward, section. JAI, Amsterdam
An Imprint of Elsevier Science. Aurelius, M , p. 170 - 180 Posted: 2002
B J Avolio , B M Bass
Re-examining the components of transformational and transactional leadership using the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire
Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology , volume 72 , issue 4 , p. 441 - 462 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,190
RANK
252,723
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies