Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Risk Factor Disclosures in Quarterly Reports

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 29 No. 4, 2015, pp.887-916.

Posted: 19 Jul 2014 Last revised: 7 Oct 2021

Joshua Filzen

Boise State University

Date Written: January 29, 2015

Abstract

I examine whether recently required risk factor update disclosures in quarterly reports provide investors with timely information regarding potential future negative economic events. Specifically, I examine whether risk factor updates in 10 Q filings are associated with negative abnormal returns at the time the updates are disclosed and whether quarterly updates are followed by negative earnings shocks. I find that firms presenting updates to their risk factor disclosures have significantly lower abnormal returns around the filing date of the 10 Q relative to firms without updates. I also find that firms with updates to their risk factors section have significantly lower future unexpected earnings and are more likely to experience future extreme negative earnings shocks. These findings suggest that the recent disclosure requirement mandated by the SEC was successful in generating timely disclosure of bad news.

Keywords: risk factors, SEC, regulation, disclosure, policy

JEL Classification: M41, M48, D80, G18

Suggested Citation:

Filzen, Joshua, The Information Content of Risk Factor Disclosures in Quarterly Reports (January 29, 2015). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 29 No. 4, 2015, pp.887-916., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467681 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467681
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,581
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies