Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Grade Incomplete': Examining the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Attempt to Implement Credit Rating and Certain Corporate Governance Reforms of Dodd-Frank

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-21

18 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2014

Randle B. Pollard

Washington and Lee University - School of Law

Tod Perry

Indiana University Kelley School of Business

Date Written: June 10, 2014

Abstract

Following the financial crisis of 2007-2009, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act with stated goals, among others, of creating a sound economic foundation and protecting consumers. The Dodd-Frank Act creates several new agencies and restructures the financial regulatory system, yet controversies remain on the promulgation of new rules and the overall effectiveness in accomplishing the stated goals of the Act.

This Article briefly discusses the status of rulemaking by newly created agencies and the restructured financial regulatory system mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act three years after its passage. Next, we focus on certain aspects of the SEC and its charge from Dodd-Frank to implement new agencies and regulations. Specifically, we examine the SEC efforts to establish the Office of Credit Ratings and its regulations and the SEC’s efforts related to additional executive compensation disclosure regulations required by Dodd-Frank.

Keywords: Dodd-Frank, SEC, financial, regulations

Suggested Citation:

Pollard, Randle B. and Perry, Tod, 'Grade Incomplete': Examining the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Attempt to Implement Credit Rating and Certain Corporate Governance Reforms of Dodd-Frank (June 10, 2014). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2014-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
U S
Posted: 2009
Crossref
74. Id. 75. SEC Adopts Rules for Say-on-Pay and Golden Parachute Compensation as Required Under
Stat , volume 229 Posted: 2010-01-124
Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Posted: 1376
Shareholder Approval of Executive Compensation and Golden Parachute Compensation , volume 240 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,326
RANK
481,321
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies