Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Schedularity in U.S. Income Taxation and its Effect on Tax Distribution

Northwestern University Law Review, Vol. 108, No. 3, 2014, p. 905-24

Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-19

21 Pages Posted: 21 Jul 2014 Last revised: 12 Sep 2014

Henry Ordower

Saint Louis University - School of Law

Date Written: July 20, 2014

Abstract

Income tax systems in some countries follow primarily schedular models that classify income by type, match it with deductions from the same class, and compute a separate tax on each class. The United States income tax uses a global tax model under which it taxes citizens and permanent residents on their worldwide income without regard to source or character. The United States system is not purely global but includes schedular elements. This Article exposes embedded schedularity in the United States income tax in the three principal areas of investment income, personal services income, and tax free income. The Article tests whether that schedularity enhances or undercuts the tax principles of horizontal and vertical equity that underlie the development of both global and schedular tax systems in advanced economies. Horizontal equity is a straightforward principle and seems an indisputable precept. It requires that like taxpayers incur like tax burdens. The principle of vertical equity is more nuanced and departs from the principle that as one’s income increases, one can and should contribute ever larger percentages of that income to supporting governmental services. Vertical equity assumes that the wealthier one is, the less likely it is that an increased tax burden will diminish the individual’s welfare in any material way. Conversely, the less wealthy one is, the more likely it is that an increased tax burden will diminish the individual’s welfare materially. The vertical equity principle led to the development of the progressive rate structures. While the Article observes that Congress uses schedular elements to accomplish distributional policy goals, initially in order to protect progressivity, more recently schedularity has tended to increase overall regressivity in taxation. The Article concludes that United States taxation seems to be moderately schedular and that schedularity in the United States contributes to regressivity in taxation.

Keywords: Income Taxation, Regressivity, Schedularity, Distribution, Fairness

JEL Classification: D60, K34, H21, H22, H23, H24

Suggested Citation:

Ordower, Henry, Schedularity in U.S. Income Taxation and its Effect on Tax Distribution (July 20, 2014). Northwestern University Law Review, Vol. 108, No. 3, 2014, p. 905-24, Saint Louis U. Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-19, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2468787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Phila , Park Amusement , Co
United States, 126 F. Supp. 184, 189 (Ct. Cl. 1954) (holding that an exchange at arm's length means that the values of the exchanged property interests must be equal)
I R C
Judicial decisions before enactment of I.R.C. § 7872 in 1984 held that a lender was free to lend without imputation of income
E G See , Dean V
Section 172(a) of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984
Stat , volume 494 , p. 699 - 703 Posted: 1961
I R C
265(a)(1) (denying a deduction for the expenses of producing tax-exempt income)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
RANK
687,646
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Saint Louis University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies