Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taking the Student Out of Student Athlete: College Sports and the Unrelated Business Income Tax

Journal Taxation of Investments, Summer 2014, at 29

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-20

Posted: 24 Jul 2014 Last revised: 23 May 2025

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: January 01, 2024

Abstract

A recent decision by a National Labor Relations Board regional director, concluding that football players at Northwestern University are employees for purposes of the National Labor Relations Act, could have spillover effects in tax law. This article considers whether severing the connection between participation in athletics and the educational function of a university — i.e., ending the pretense that athletes are student athletes — could lead to imposition of the unrelated business income tax (UBIT) on the net revenue of some intercollegiate teams at big-time athletic colleges.

Keywords: student athlete, unrelated business income tax (UBIT), National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), unrelated business, taxable activity

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., Taking the Student Out of Student Athlete: College Sports and the Unrelated Business Income Tax (January 01, 2024). Journal Taxation of Investments, Summer 2014, at 29, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2469946
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies