Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Market Value and Uncertainty Regarding Highest and Best Use

143 Tax Notes 1425 (2014)

4 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014

John Montague

Hogan Lovells; Hogan Lovells

Date Written: June 23, 2014

Abstract

This article argues that the Tax Court’s valuation in Palmer Ranch Holdings v. Commissioner, T.C. Memo. 2014-79, did not reflect the property’s true fair market value because it failed to account for uncertainty regarding the property’s highest and best use. In Palmer Ranch Holdings, a conservation easement case, the court applied the valuation approach originally endorsed by the Tax Court in Hilborn v. Commissioner, 85 T.C. 677 (1985), which requires the court to first decide the property's highest and best use (using a reasonable probability standard) and then to determine the fair market value given the highest and best use decided in the first step. This article explains why the two-step approach exaggerates the fair market value of property when there is uncertainty regarding its highest and best use. The evaluation of the highest and best use of property should be a component of fair market value rather than a separate step.

Keywords: conservation easement, fair market value, charitable contribution, tax, Tax Court, valuation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Montague, John and Montague, John, Fair Market Value and Uncertainty Regarding Highest and Best Use (June 23, 2014). 143 Tax Notes 1425 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,271
RANK
370,049
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies