Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS Under Siege

Confidence Games: Lawyers, Accountants, and the Tax Shelter Industry, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 2014

15 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014

Tanina Rostain

Georgetown University Law Center

Milton C. Regan, Jr.

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Confidence Games provides an account of the wave of tax shelters that occurred at the turn of the twenty-first century. During this period, some of America’s most prominent law and accounting firms created and marketed products that enabled the very rich — including newly minted dot-com millionaires — to avoid paying their share of taxes by claiming benefits not recognized by law. These abusive tax shelters bore names like BOSS, BLIPS, and COBRA and were developed by such prestigious firms as KPMG, Ernst & Young, BDO Seidman, the now defunct Jenkens & Gilchrist and Brown & Wood, now merged into Sidley Austin. These shelters brought in hundreds of millions of dollars in fees from clients and deprived the U.S. Treasury of billions in revenue before the IRS and Justice Department stepped in with civil penalties and criminal prosecutions targeting the professionals and firms involved. As we suggest, the decade of tax shelter activity between the mid-1990s and mid-2000s is the most serious episode of professional misconduct in the history of the American bar.

Chapter 1, available here, describes how an overstretched and under-resourced IRS came under attack in the late 1990’s by anti-tax and anti-government members of Congress. In the chapters that follow, we describe the heightened competition for professional services, the relaxation of tax practitioner norms against aggressive advice, and the creation of complex financial instruments that made abusive shelters harder to detect. By 2004, the tax shelter boom was over, leaving failed firms, disgraced professionals, and prison sentences in its wake. A central theme that we explore in the book is the role of organizational forces in abetting wrongdoing. In the conclusion, we assess the regulatory responses that ultimately put an end to this wave of shelters. We also consider strategies and approaches that might serve to strengthen professional norms governing tax advice.

The rise and fall of the tax shelter industry offers a cautionary tale that we believe remains highly relevant today, as lawyers and accountants continue to face intense competitive pressure and regulators continue to struggle to keep pace with accelerating financial risk and innovation.

Keywords: tax advisors, conflicted citizens, professional conduct, tax advice

JEL Classification: K30, K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Rostain, Tanina and Regan, Milton C., The IRS Under Siege (2014). Confidence Games: Lawyers, Accountants, and the Tax Shelter Industry, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,630
RANK
481,321
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University Law Center Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies