Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Permanent Establishment: An Evolving Concept Under China's Tax Treaties (1983-2013)

British Tax Review, Issue 3, 2014

34 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2014

Dongmei Qiu

Xiamen University

Date Written: July 25, 2014

Abstract

This review of permanent establishment (PE) articles in China’s tax treaties/arrangements together with the interpretation of these articles in China provides a partial window onto the economic, regulatory and institutional changes which have taken place in China. In addition, this review tells us a great deal about how those changes, in the wider context, have shaped and influenced China’s international tax policy and will continue to do so. From the 1980s to the mid-1990s, the PE article in the UN Model Double Taxation Convention Between Developed and Developing Countries(UN Model) was considered to be the preferred blueprint for China. However, more features of the PE article in the OECD’s Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital (OECD Model) have been squeezed into China’s treaties signed after the mid-1990s. With regard to interpretation, the OECD commentary has been used by the State Administration of Taxation (SAT) as an important source of reference in order to develop its own interpretation of PE articles. Since China is a non-OECD member state, the SAT is also left with enough space to design and experiment with innovative tax rules outside of the OECD forum. As a new era of international tax regime dawns, signalled by the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plan, it remains to be seen how China’s approach to addressing treaty issues may possibly become a “new force” which adds particular, focused thinking and, quite possibly, adapted-values to key future discussions within the international tax community.

Keywords: China; Double taxation treaties; International taxation; Non-resident companies; OECD; Permanent establishment; Tax administration

Suggested Citation:

Qiu, Dongmei, Permanent Establishment: An Evolving Concept Under China's Tax Treaties (1983-2013) (July 25, 2014). British Tax Review, Issue 3, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2471500
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
investment and expenses and receive profits from the petroleum produced. See W. Shan, The Legal Framework of EU-China Investment Relations: A Critical Appraisal , p. 42 - 43 Posted: 2005
H Xuegong
Inviting in' and 'Going out': A New Era for the International Cooperation on Petroleum
Economic Analysis of China Petroleum and Chemical Industry 40
S Chen
Motivations behind China's Foreign Oil Quest: A Perspective from the Chinese Government and the Oil Companies
Journal of Chinese Political Science , volume 13 , issue 1 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
214,632
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies