Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Warren Buffett's Commentary on Accounting, Governance and Investing Practices Reflected in the Investment Decisions and Subsequent Influence of Berkshire Hathaway?

Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Jul 2014

Robert M. Bowen

Chapman University - The George L. Argyros School of Business & Economics; University of Washington - Foster School of Business

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

Mohan Venkatachalam

Duke University - Fuqua School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 25, 2014

Abstract

We examine (i) whether the business practices of Berkshire Hathaway investees are consistent with Warren Buffett’s public statements on what constitutes good accounting, governance and investing practices and (ii) whether these practices are associated with Berkshire’s initial “selection” or Buffett’s subsequent “influence.” Compared to control firms, we find that Berkshire investees are highly likely to follow Buffett’s investment philosophy, somewhat likely to follow his preferred accounting, disclosure and compensation policies, but unlikely to follow the board-related governance practices that we can measure. Second, we find some evidence that the business practices of future Berkshire investees are more aligned with Buffett’s beliefs in the pre-investment period compared to control firms. Third, we find relatively modest evidence that investees improve a few of their business practices subsequent to Berkshire’s initial investment. However, overall, Buffett does not appear to be especially influential in the subsequent accounting, governance and investing decisions of Berkshire investees, likely because he has already taken into account the attributes he cares most about in the initial investment decision.

Suggested Citation:

Bowen, Robert M. and Rajgopal, Shivaram and Venkatachalam, Mohan, Is Warren Buffett's Commentary on Accounting, Governance and Investing Practices Reflected in the Investment Decisions and Subsequent Influence of Berkshire Hathaway? (July 25, 2014). Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2472125
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,093
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies