Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Capital Providers’ Perceptions of Integrated Reporting

17 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2014

Wendy Stubbs

Monash University

Colin Higgins

Deakin University

Markus J. Milne

University of Canterbury - Department of Accountancy Finance and Information Systems

Les Hems

Net Balance Research Institute; EY (Ernst & Young) Australia

Date Written: July 29, 2014

Abstract

Integrated reporting (IR) is a global reporting phenomenon that promises to "catalyse a more cohesive and efficient approach to corporate reporting" to address problems of contemporary reporting regimes. The primary purpose of IR is to explain how organisations create value over time. The goal of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is for IR to be the corporate reporting norm. This paper reports on the findings from a pilot research study that investigated the perspectives of Australian providers of financial capital about the significance of IR and the six capitals to investment decisions and the functioning of the market. This study is the first stage of a larger research study into the adoption of integrated reporting in Australia. All participants concurred that there were problems with the current corporate reporting regime and the issues identified were broadly consistent with the IIRC’s view. But some questions remain whether IR is the solution to these problems, and moves afoot by Australian regulatory bodies to encourage companies to report environmental and social sustainability risks may be more influential in corporate reporting reform than IR. The six capitals framework has not ignited the interest of the participants, as they use ESG frameworks which they feel are broad enough to encompass the six capitals. A more significant issue however, is the gap between the information supplied by companies and the information required by providers of financial capital to make investment decisions. While IR has the potential to bridge this information gap, it is not yet happening.

Keywords: corporate reporting; integrated reporting; environmental, social & governance (ESG)

Suggested Citation:

Stubbs, Wendy and Higgins, Colin and Milne, Markus J. and Hems, Les, Financial Capital Providers’ Perceptions of Integrated Reporting (July 29, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2473426 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2473426
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Asic
Regulatory Guide 247: Effective disclosure in an operating and financial review. Sydney: Australian Securities and Investment Commission Posted: 2013
Submission to Consultation Draft International Integrated Reporting Framework Posted: 2013
Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations Posted: 2014
R L Burritt
Environmental performance accountability: planet, people, profits. Accounting
Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 405 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Suhee Kim , Karen Maas , Paolo Perego
The Effect of Publication, Format and Content of Integrated Reports on Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts
Forthcoming, " the Handbook of Finance and Sustainability", Boubaker, S., Cummings, D., & Nguyen, D. (Eds), Edward Elgar, 2017 · 28 Pages · Posted: 25 Jan 2017 · Downloads: 367
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,078
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,722
RANK
47,074
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies