Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China's Business-Tax-To-Vat Reform: An Interim Assessment

British Tax Review 2014(5), pp 617-641

28 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2014 Last revised: 8 May 2015

Wei Cui

Peter A. Allard School of Law, the University of British Columbia

Date Written: August 5, 2014

Abstract

The reform to replace the Business Tax (BT) with the VAT is the largest tax reform initiative in China since 1994. This article assesses the first two years of the reform from a tax policy perspective. It shows that the government has tried to preempt resistance to reform through highly unusual tax design and by allowing local governments to retain revenue from pilot sectors. The VAT for pilot sectors is characterized by two new reduced rates that apply to a wide range of business-to-business transactions as well as consumer services (such as internet and mobile data services) not generally regarded in other VAT systems as requiring reduced rates. Moreover, a broad population of new VAT taxpayers is subject to "simplified collection" — a low-rate cascading levy. One characterization is that a second VAT has emerged that perpetuate many of the BT’s distortionary characteristics while also taking on the flaws of China’s traditional VAT. This renders both the prospects and benefits of extending the reform to further sectors (most consumer services, real estate, and financial services) uncertain.

Keywords: Business Tax, central-local fiscal relations, policy experiments, tax reform, tax policy, VAT

JEL Classification: E62, H25, H71, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cui, Wei, China's Business-Tax-To-Vat Reform: An Interim Assessment (August 5, 2014). British Tax Review 2014(5), pp 617-641, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2476503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
B Brys , S Matthews , R Herd , X Wang
Tax policy and tax reform in the people's republic of China
OCED Taxation Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Bye , B Strom , T Avitsland
Welfare effects of VAT reforms: a general equilibrium analysis
International Tax and Public Finance , volume 19 , p. 368 - 392 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C Carbonnier
Who pays sales taxes? Evidence from French VAT reforms
Journal of Public Economics , volume 91 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1219 - 1229 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Outstanding results from Anhui's first year of B2V reform. China Tax Yearbook
China Finance and Economics News Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,005
RANK
146,022
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies