Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tangled Up in Tape: The Continuing Tax Compliance Plight of the Small and Medium Enterprise Business Sector

Australian Tax Forum, Vol 29, No 2, pp. 217-247

32 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2014 Last revised: 23 Dec 2020

Philip Lignier

University of Tasmania

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Date Written: February 25, 2014

Abstract

Firms in the small and medium enterprise (SME) sector have to contend not just with the burden of tax. They also have to comply with obligations imposed by the tax system. Studies invariably show such tax compliance costs to be high and regressive. This article reports on a recent large-scale Australian study which confirm previous research and also suggests that tax compliance costs for SMEs are not diminishing over time, despite tax administrative reform and technological advances designed to reduce such costs. The outcomes of the study have significant implications for businesses in the SME sector, their advisers, administrators working with revenue authorities and policy-makers at the governmental level.

Suggested Citation:

Lignier, Philip and Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh, Tangled Up in Tape: The Continuing Tax Compliance Plight of the Small and Medium Enterprise Business Sector (February 25, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol 29, No 2, pp. 217-247, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2479153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2479153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
6 Citations
Binh Tran-Nam
Successful Public Policy: Lessons from Australia and New Zealand
, p. 235 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Thomas Hoppe , Deborah Schanz , Susann Sturm , Caren Sureth-Sloane
The Tax Complexity Index – A Survey-Based Country Measure of Tax Code and Framework Complexity
European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 2 , p. 239 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Sacchidananda Mukherjee , Shivani Badola
Estimation of VAT compliance costs of unincorporated enterprises in India: unit-level analysis
Indian Economic Review , volume 57 , issue 2 , p. 421 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Abdul Farida , Wang’ombe David
Tax costs and tax compliance behaviour in Kenya
Journal of Accounting and Taxation , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,082
RANK
230,052
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies