Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Further Reflections on the Hastings-Bass Rule, Rescission for Mistake and Rectification

Journal of Equity, Vol. 8, pp. 46-71, 2014

Singapore Management University School of Law Research Paper No. 19/2014

Posted: 15 Aug 2014 Last revised: 22 Aug 2014

Yip Man

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This article examines the state of the development of the rule in Re Hastings-Bass (dec’d) [1975] Ch 25, rescission for mistake and rectification, in light of two recent English decisions Day v. Day [2013] EWCA Civ 280 and Futter v. Futter; Pitt v. Holt [2013] UKSC 26. It has two objectives. The first and principal objective is to analyse the doctrinal and practical distinctions between the three equitable doctrines in the context of voluntary dispositions. Two comparative exercises are conducted to achieve this objective: (a) between rescission for mistake and rectification; and (b) between the Hastings-Bass rule and rescission for mistake. The second objective is to examine how these equitable remedies interplay in the specific context of unwinding unsuccessful tax-planning schemes. This article argues that a distinction should be drawn between unacceptable tax avoidance practices and acceptable tax avoidance practices, and the law should not rely on rigid requirements that do not address this distinction to filter out undeserving cases.

Suggested Citation:

Man, Yip, Further Reflections on the Hastings-Bass Rule, Rescission for Mistake and Rectification (2014). Journal of Equity, Vol. 8, pp. 46-71, 2014, Singapore Management University School of Law Research Paper No. 19/2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2480881
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University Yong Pung How School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies