Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Not-So-Merry Wives of Windsor: The Taxation of Women in Same-Sex Marriages

101 Cornell L. Rev. 325 (2016)

60 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2014 Last revised: 26 Jan 2016

Lily Kahng

Seattle University School of Law

Date Written: April 9, 2015

Abstract

In United States v. Windsor, the Supreme Court invalidated the Defense of Marriage Act definition of marriage as “between one man and one woman,” heralding its subsequent recognition, in Obergefell v. Hodges, of a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. Windsor cleared the way for same-sex couples to be treated as married under federal tax laws, and the Obama administration promptly announced that it would recognize same-sex marriages for tax purposes. Academics, policymakers, and activists lauded these developments as finally achieving tax equality between same- and different-sex married couples. This Article argues that the claimed tax equality of Windsor is illusory and that the only way to achieve actual equality is to eliminate taxation on the basis of marital status.

Focusing on the taxation of women in same-sex marriages, the Article explores what lies beneath the putative equality gains that result from according same-sex married couples the same status as different-sex married couples. The Article predicts, based on demographic statistics and other sociological and economic research relating to income levels, wealth holdings, child rearing, and employment patterns, that women in same-sex marriages will be less likely than other married people to reap the benefits, and more likely to suffer the detriments, of marriage taxation. In analyzing why women in same-sex marriages are likely to suffer adverse consequences from their new tax status as married, the Article builds on prior critical and feminist tax literature showing how the tax law — though purportedly neutral in its treatment of married couples — privileges traditional marriages in which men are the primary income earners and wealth holders, and adversely affects married women’s incentives and abilities to be workers, income producers, and wealth holders. The Article argues that the tax law, through the fictitious construction of the married couple as an irreducible economic unit, continues to reward this anachronistic model of marriage and to penalize other, more egalitarian models of marriage. The Article proposes that taxation on the basis of marital status be curtailed through the abolition of the joint return and through other reforms. More broadly, the Article demonstrates how taxation is a powerful tool by which the state regulates intimate relationships, and it highlights the need for a careful and critical evaluation of other marriage laws as they extend their reach to same-sex relationships.

Keywords: taxation, same-sex marriage, Windsor, family

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H24

Suggested Citation:

Kahng, Lily, The Not-So-Merry Wives of Windsor: The Taxation of Women in Same-Sex Marriages (April 9, 2015). 101 Cornell L. Rev. 325 (2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2481990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Charles Looker
The Impact of Estate and Gift Taxes on Property Dispositions, 38 CALIF
L. REV , volume 44 Posted: 1950
Id
John J Waldron
Implications of the Marital Deduction Posted: 1948
John W Beveridge
The Estate Tax Marital Deduction-Beneficent Intent, Baneful Result, 44 TAXES , volume 283 Posted: 1966
Load more
3 Citations
Suzanne A. Kim , Edward Stein
Gender in the Context of Same-Sex Divorce and Relationship Dissolution
Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 585, Rutgers Law School Research Paper · 28 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 13 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 118
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Suzanne A. Kim , Edward Stein
The Role of Gender and Gender Dynamics in Same-Sex Divorce and Dissolution
In Abbie E. Goldberg & Adam P. Romero eds., LGBTQ Divorce and Relationship Dissolution: Psychological and Legal Perspectives and Implications for Practice (Oxford University Press 2019)., Rutgers Law School Research Paper · 51 Pages · Posted: 28 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 18 Sep 2020 · Downloads: 146
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ariel Jurow Kleiman , Amy K Matsui , Estelle Mitchell
The Faulty Foundations of the Tax Code: Gender and Racial Bias in Our Tax Laws
San Diego Legal Studies Paper No. 19-423 · 39 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 195
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,288
RANK
331,643
3 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Discrimination, Law & Justice eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies