Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Delaware's Choice

Delaware Journal of Corporate Law (DJCL), Vol. 39, No. 1, 2014

53 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2014

Guhan Subramanian

Harvard Law School; Harvard Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This Article first documents the shift to annual elections of all directors at most U.S. corporations, and argues that the alternative of "ineffective" staggered boards would have been more desirable, as a policy matter, but is now a missed opportunity. Using this experience on staggered boards as a motivating case study, the Article then examines a policy choice regarding Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Four facts are uncontested: (1) in the 1980s, federal courts established the principle that Section 203 must give bidders a "meaningful opportunity for success" in order to withstand scrutiny under the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution; (2) federal courts upheld Section 203 at the time, based on empirical evidence from 1985-1988 purporting to show that Section 203 did in fact give bidders a meaningful opportunity for success; (3) between 1990 and 2010, not a single bidder was able to achieve the 85% threshold required by Section 203, thereby calling into question whether Section 203 has in fact given bidders a meaningful opportunity for success; and (4) perhaps most damning, the original evidence that the courts relied upon to conclude that Section 203 gave bidders a meaningful opportunity for success was seriously flawed – so flawed, in fact, that even this original evidence supports the opposite conclusion: that Section 203 did not give bidders a meaningful opportunity for success. The constitutionality of Section 203 is therefore "in play," and, with the decline of the poison pill, a new constitutional challenge against Section 203 will eventually come. Delaware could avoid this showdown by lowering Section 203's 85% threshold to 70%. Like the middle-ground approach on staggered boards, this amendment – to a single number – would also represent good policy: facilitating high-premium offers that attract a supermajority of disinterested shares, but also providing companies with reasonable insulation against opportunistic low-ball offers. This Article was presented as the 29th Annual Francis G. Pileggi Distinguished Lecture in Law in Wilmington, Delaware on November 22, 2013.

Keywords: Delaware, Journal, Corporate, Law, Guhan, Subramanian, Ineffective, Staggered, Boards, Section 203

Suggested Citation:

Subramanian, Guhan, Delaware's Choice (2014). Delaware Journal of Corporate Law (DJCL), Vol. 39, No. 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481634
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
For information regarding the program, see Making Corporate Boards More Effective, HARVARD BUS Posted: 2014-02-01
See Id
See supra text accompanying note 54
Bo Becker &amp; Guhan , Subramanian
Improving Director Elections, 3 HARV
BUS. L. REV , volume 1 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
209,542
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Acquisitions, Mergers, Contests for Control, & Activism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies