Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proportionality in Tax Disputes - Lithuanian Court Practice

50 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014

Ramūnas Audzevičius

Motieka & Audzevicius PLP

Date Written: August 16, 2014

Abstract

The principle of proportionality has been developed by the ECJ for many years now. It has been applied in various fields besides taxation. Its significance is illustrated by its inclusion in the text of the EU Treaty and the large number of cases at the ECJ applying it.

Lithuanian courts are bound to apply the ECJ case-law in certain cases and sometimes even when no obligation exists the courts have a right to follow the ECJ reasoning when no domestic precedents exist.

The significance of this principle is further enhanced by the accession of the EU to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights has been developing this principle and applying it as well . Hence, case-law of the ECHR has been given new importance.

Therefore, it could be presumed that the Lithuanian courts dealing with tax disputes will increasingly rely on the developments in the application of the principle of proportionality in the ECJ and the ECHR. This also provides new opportunities for tax practitioners since wider application of internationally accepted principles and international case-law should facilitate better predictability of outcome of litigation and widen the selection of available arguments in court.

Keywords: tax, lithuania, disputes

JEL Classification: H2, E62, H71

Suggested Citation:

Audzevičius, Ramūnas, Proportionality in Tax Disputes - Lithuanian Court Practice (August 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2481740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
Case false
AS 602 -544/2013, A. U. v VMI prie FM, Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania; Case No. AS 602 -458/2013, T.U v Vilnius VMI
A-602-1718 Posted: 2013
Case false
A-575-956/2011, UAB Forsitia v Vilniaus apskrities VMI, Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania. Bibliography Domestic case-law 1 Posted: 2000-12-06
decision of the Constitutional Court of Lithuania Posted: 2005-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,525
RANK
741,983
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public International Law: Courts & Adjudication eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies