Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Effective Tax Planning Can Increase the Tax Benefits of Corporate NOLs

Journal of Taxation, Volume 120, Number 2, February 2014

16 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014

John Everett

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Cherie Hennig

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington - Department of Accountancy and Business Law

William A. Raabe

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Blaise Sonnier

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs - College of Business

Date Written: March 4, 2014

Abstract

Factors such as the dividends-received deduction, the corporate AMT, and the Section 382 loss rules complicate the computation of NOLs and affect decisions needed in determining whether to carry the loss back.

The NOL procedures provide an effective means of averaging the cyclical swings of profitable and nonprofitable tax years. Without these provisions, taxpayers would in effect "waste" excess deductions that occur in one tax year.

Keywords: net operating loss, NOL, corporate income tax, corporate tax, corporate AMT, dividends received, carryover, carryback, carryforward, tax loss

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Everett, John and Hennig, Cherie and Raabe, William A. and Sonnier, Blaise, How Effective Tax Planning Can Increase the Tax Benefits of Corporate NOLs (March 4, 2014). Journal of Taxation, Volume 120, Number 2, February 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481152
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Sections 6164(f), (g), and (h)
Reg
, volume 1 , p. 6164 - 6170
Crossref
Section 56(d)
A similar limitation applied at one time to a foreign tax credit taken against the tentative minimum tax
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
357,528
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies