Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
United States National Report on Exchange of Information

Proceedings of Annual Congress of the European Association of Tax Law Professors, 2014

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 14-22

26 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014 Last revised: 22 Aug 2014

Joshua D. Blank

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: August 15, 2014

Abstract

This National Report was prepared for the 2014 Annual Congress of the European Association of Tax Law Professors, which took place in May 2014 at Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey. This National Report discusses administrative and legal mechanisms, especially the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), that the United States has deployed to obtain offshore tax information. Portions of this National Report were originally published in Joshua D. Blank and Ruth Mason, “Exporting FATCA,” 142 Tax Notes 1245 (2014).

Keywords: FATCA, sanctions, tax compliance, tax delinquent, tax enforcement, tax evasion, offshore

JEL Classification: H20, H23, H24, H25, H26, H29, K34, K14

Suggested Citation:

Blank, Joshua D. and Mason, Ruth, United States National Report on Exchange of Information (August 15, 2014). Proceedings of Annual Congress of the European Association of Tax Law Professors, 2014, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 14-22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
) federal law required [the taxpayers] to maintain and make available for inspection records regarding their foreign financial accounts; (2) that recordkeeping requirement… was 'essentially regulatory' and not criminal in nature; (3) the records were of the sort that 'bank customers would customarily keep'; and (4) the records had 'public aspects' because they contained information that federal law [the taxpayers] to maintain and make available for inspection by the IRS [and]. . . report to the Treasury Department".) Op. at 4-5. The last requirements
-5 (upholding district court's ruling that the required records exception applied because
I R C
Crossref
I R C
Crossref
Irsig See , Wo
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,960
RANK
339,352
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies