Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deferral and Repatriation: A Proposal to Encourage Repatriation of Offshore Income

ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research, Volume 11, Issue 2, August 2013, DOI: 10.2308/jltr-50596

16 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014

William A. Raabe

University of Wisconsin - Whitewater - College of Business and Economics

Cherie Hennig

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Wilmington - Department of Accountancy and Business Law

John Everett

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The need for U.S. tax laws to encourage and reward repatriation of offshore income is stronger than ever. We propose an approach that will penalize retaining earnings overseas, while rewarding entities that undertake a repatriation policy. The reward structure requires an accountable use of the repatriated funds for designated investments that further the economic needs goals of the U.S. Under our proposal, an interest charge would be assessed on unrepatriated offshore profits and would be reduced as various remission targets are met. The dividends-received deduction on repatriated earnings would increase as various remission and usage targets are met. A clawback provision would require the taxpayer to repay tax benefits received if there is a subsequent failure to meet the usage targets. The potential difficulties of operationalizing our proposal are identified and considered. A combination of the strategies developed in this proposal, perhaps in concert with features of other proposals, would encourage participating corporations to modify their cash management plans in ways that would provide a sustainable boost for the U.S. economy while also increasing tax revenues.

Keywords: tax deferral, international tax, repatriation, idle cash, overseas cash, offshore earnings, clawback, dividends

JEL Classification: H20, H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Raabe, William A. and Hennig, Cherie and Everett, John, Deferral and Repatriation: A Proposal to Encourage Repatriation of Offshore Income (2013). ATA Journal of Legal Tax Research, Volume 11, Issue 2, August 2013, DOI: 10.2308/jltr-50596 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
J Everett , C Hennig , W Raabe
Repatriated earnings: A carrot, stick, and cabbage approach
Tax Notes , volume 66 , p. 1235 - 1263 Posted: 2012
U S
Repatriating Offshore Funds: 2004 Windfall for Select Multinationals Posted: 2012-10-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,257
RANK
697,815
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies