Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Canadian Banks Ready for Basel III?

Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 3, No. 3, 2014

11 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2014

Imad Kutum

University of Jordan; Kutum & Associates Inc.

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: August 15, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to analyze and test the current liquidity coverage ratio of Canadian banks’, and draw conclusions about the readiness of Canadian banks to meet Basel III regulations. Liquidity coverage ratios for six major Canadian banks were calculated using the liquid assets and liabilities listed on their balance sheets from 2009 to 2013. The actual assets that meet Basel III requirements could not be acquired, as this is private information that does not have to be released until 2015. Five of the six major Canadian banks that were examined are likely to be able to meet Basel III requirements in 2015. While some of the banks are already on their way to achieving full 2019 compliance, one of the banks is only barely meeting the 2015 requirements, raising the question of whether it will be able to meet and maintain Basel III liquidity requirements. The limitation of this study is that the liquidity coverage ratio formula used in Basel III could not be calculated, as the specific assets that meet Basel III requirements could not be obtained for the Canadian banks. The implication is that Canadian regulators need to focus attention on those banks that have been shown to be potentially unable to meet Basel III liquidity requirements. The value of this study is based in part on the lack of similar studies conducted on Canadian banks. This is one of the few studies of this nature not conducted on banks in the United States or the United Kingdom.

Keywords: Liquidity coverage ratio, Canadian banks, Basel III, Canada, Financial crisis

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kutum, Imad and Hussainey, Khaled, Are Canadian Banks Ready for Basel III? (August 15, 2014). Accounting and Finance Research, Vol. 3, No. 3, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2481121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
V Acharya , S Schaefer
Liquidity risk and correlation risk: Implications for risk management Posted: 2006
Afme
Liquidity Coverage Ratio Posted: 2014
B Allen , K K Chan , A Milne , S Thomas
Basel III: Is the cure worse than the disease?
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 25 , p. 159 - 166 Posted: 2012
Crossref
S A Asongu
Post-crisis bank liquidity risk management disclosure
Qualitative Research in Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 84 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,496
RANK
359,301
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies