Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Customer Equity – An Integral Part of Financial Reporting

Journal of Marketing, Vol. 72, Issue 2, 1-14 (March 2008)

Posted: 21 Aug 2014

Thorsten Wiesel

Independent

Bernd Skiera

Goethe University Frankfurt

Julian Villanueva

Assistant Professor of Marketing

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Recent initiatives demand information that supplements and complements a firm's financial statements to bridge the gap between financial statement capabilities and financial reporting objectives. Such information assists investors' decision making by explaining the main trends and factors that underlie the development, performance, and position of the firm's business. Firms that aim to increase the value of their customer base should report forward-looking customer metrics because such reports align customer management with corporate goals and investors' perspectives. The authors propose a means to report customer equity that enables investors — the "consumers" of financial reports — to monitor firms' performance with respect to their customer assets. Furthermore, they develop a specific model for Netflix and apply it to quarterly data from September 2001 to September 2006.

Keywords: customer equity, decomposition, financial reporting, customer lifetime value

JEL Classification: M1, M3

Suggested Citation:

Wiesel, Thorsten and Skiera, Bernd and Villanueva, Julian, Customer Equity – An Integral Part of Financial Reporting (2008). Journal of Marketing, Vol. 72, Issue 2, 1-14 (March 2008) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2483643
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,915
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies