Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Situations - Knowledge Base of an Expert System

7 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2014

Iancu Eugenia

University of Suceava - Stefan cel Mare

Colomeischi Tudor

University of Suceava - Stefan cel Mare

Tiberiu Socaciu

University of Suceava - Stefan cel Mare

Baesu Camelia

University of Suceava - Stefan cel Mare

Date Written: August 22, 2014

Abstract

This paper is the result of theoretical and practical research done in the field of expert systems applicable in economics. The main objective considered was to develop an expert system architecture (which uses as knowledge base the data from the financial statements) and to test it on the economy (in the sense of permanent and automatic updating of accounting knowledge which is taken from the balance sheet and other accounting documents), considering this approach as a new element in the design of ES. Obviously, the ES proposed does not ignore the knowledge base, knowledge editors, inference engine and interfaces specific to any type of expert system.

The knowledge base is made up of knowledge (taken from various financial statements), which is processed by the inference engine (the inference machine works with production rules).

Keywords: financial reports, profitability of capitals, basis of knowledge, financial accounting decision, subroutines

JEL Classification: M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Eugenia, Iancu and Tudor, Colomeischi and Socaciu, Tiberiu and Camelia, Baesu, Financial Situations - Knowledge Base of an Expert System (August 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2485027 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2485027
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A. -Sisteme Alexandru , Expert
Concepte şi aplicaţii
Matrix Rom Posted: 2002
I Andone , J Mockler , Dologite G Robert , Ţugui Doroty , Al
Alexandru -Dezvoltarea sistemelor inteligente în economie Posted: 2001
I Andone , A Ţugui
Sisteme inteligente în management, contabilitate, finanţe -bănci, marketing, Editura Economică , p. 75 - 76 Posted: 1999
A Beerel
Expert System in Business, real world applications Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,565
RANK
588,428
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies