Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inventory Valuation: A Study of Practicality in Indonesian Publishing Firms

Jurnal Riset Akuntansi dan Perbankan, Vol. 3, No. 3, May 2012, p. 1-11

10 Pages Posted: 30 Aug 2014

Reinald Dominicus

Swiss German University

Samuel P. D. Anantadjaya

IPMI International Business School

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

In accounting, inventory is regarded as one of the important factors for the company’s assets. At least, the higher the value of inventory, ceteris paribus, boosts the value of the company. This may bring about public image and attract potential inventors. However, it may still raise concerns from the public in terms of the real valuation on the company’s inventory, not only on the finished products, but also on the raw materials, and the semi-finished products. For publicly-traded firms, inventory valuations are relatively clear as they are bounded by rules and regulations from the government. For private firms, inventory valuations are a bit lenient though they are still bounded by standardized accounting rules and regulations. Hence, it may be interesting to study the actual method of inventory valuations in privately-held firms.

This paper attempts to observe and analyze the inventory valuation practices in privately-held publishing companies in Indonesia. It is a common knowledge that publishing firms face relatively unique challenges, whereby their inventory values decline over time.

Unstructured interview is used to develop preliminary analysis of inventory valuation practices in several publishing firms. Further methodology used is statistical hypothesis testing. The paper discovered several findings consistent with the author’s hypotheses. First, the researched company is usually aware of obsolete inventory, whose value declines overtime. However such companies usually do not adjust its inventory value even after gaining evidence to propose for adjustments. The finding of this paper is also concluded that such phenomenon are due to several factors, such as the practical of business which is common and major under the judgment of company’s management.

Keywords: inventory valuation, publishing firms, practical, accounting

JEL Classification: M00, M10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dominicus, Reinald and Anantadjaya, Samuel P. D., Inventory Valuation: A Study of Practicality in Indonesian Publishing Firms (May 1, 2012). Jurnal Riset Akuntansi dan Perbankan, Vol. 3, No. 3, May 2012, p. 1-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Pervaiz Alam , Eng Seng Loh
Choice of Inventory Valuation Method and Self-Selection Bias
Pages: 47 Posted: 4 Jan 1999
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muhammad Ali , Kamran Jahangir , Daren Ahmed , Henry
Harmonization of Accounting Measurement Practices in South Asia
Advances in International Accounting , volume 19 , p. 25 - 58 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Orie Barron , Jamie Pratt , James D Stice
Misstatement Direction, Litigation Risk, and Planned Audit Investment
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 39 , p. 449 - 462 Posted: 2001-12
Crossref
Sudipta Basu
The Conservation Principle and the Asymmetric Timelines of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997-12
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,715
RANK
427,404
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies