Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Coordinating the Processes of Resource Enrichment and Capability Deployment: Lessons from IT Implementation at a Medium-Sized Accounting Firm

International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 22, Issue 4

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-24

20 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2014 Last revised: 1 Nov 2016

Gary Pan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Sayyen Teoh

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University)

Poh-Sun Seow

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

Increasingly, organizations need to respond to wide range of information technology (IT) based opportunities and pressures. The situation is no different in an accounting firm. Many accounting practitioners have advocated investment in IT to improve accounting firms’ productivity. To date, there are many instances of how IT has radically transformed the nature of accounting practice. Nevertheless, little is known about how IT capability is developed in small and medium-sized accounting firms. In particular, the resource enrichment process during IT capability development has been understudied. The purpose of our paper has been to address our research question of how are the processes of resource enrichment and capability deployment coordinated during IT implementation at a small and medium-sized accounting firm?

Keywords: resource enrichment, capability deployment, accounting firm

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Gary and Teoh, Sayyen and Seow, Poh-Sun, Coordinating the Processes of Resource Enrichment and Capability Deployment: Lessons from IT Implementation at a Medium-Sized Accounting Firm (2014). International Journal of Accounting & Information Management, Vol. 22, Issue 4, Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper No. 2015-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2489830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A Adebayo
Organizational culture and performance: the role of management accounting system
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 74 - 89 Posted: 2011
M Alves
Information technology roles in accounting tasks -a multiple case study
International Journal of Trade, Economics and Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Amit , P Schoemaker
Strategic assets and organizational rent
Strategic Management Journal , volume 14 , p. 33 - 46 Posted: 1993
Crossref
K Amoako-Gyampah , A Salam
An extension of the technology acceptance model in an ERP implementation environment
Information and Management , volume 41 , issue 6 , p. 731 - 745 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,224
RANK
687,646
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies