Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Paul Keating, Tax Alchemist? A Study Proposing the Interpretive Tools of Pierre Bourdieu

(2013) Vol. 8(1) Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association pg. 1-23.

23 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2014

Diane Kraal

Monash University - Monash Business School

Date Written: December 2, 2013

Abstract

What is the extent of Paul Keating’s contribution to tax reform during his time as Australia’s Treasurer (1983-1991) and Prime Minister (1991-1996)? Even today he is an active commentator on government policy.

Some would claim that Keating simply marketed the tax reform ideas of others to the electorate. Alternatively, using the metaphor of a tax alchemist, he transformed existing tax reform ideals and built upon them.

This study, while acknowledging more common theoretical approaches to understanding tax reform, argues for an alternative: Pierre Bourdieu’s social practice theory. Thus an interpretive approach is proposed to analyse the relational processes between tax reform actors, but with a focus in Paul Keating. The Bourdieusian concepts of 'field', 'habitus' and 'capital' were developed to help explain contextualised social and relational encounters; and have been previously applied to legal issues. My investigation finds that these tools are appropriate to explain tax reform, given the scenario of the interrelatedness of Keating’s persona and struggles with the tax institutions and its elite political, civil sector, business, academic and trade union actors. Keating’s early tax reforms are now ‘doxa’: normative elements of the tax structure.

Keywords: tax policy, tax history, Australian Tax history, Pierre Bourdieu

Suggested Citation:

Kraal, Diane, Paul Keating, Tax Alchemist? A Study Proposing the Interpretive Tools of Pierre Bourdieu (December 2, 2013). (2013) Vol. 8(1) Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association pg. 1-23. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2490300
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Pierre Bourdieu
The Force of Law: Toward a Sociology of the Jurudical Field
Hastings Law Journal , volume 2 Posted: 1987
E G Mcbarnet , C Whelan
The Elusive Spirit of the Law: Formalism and the Struggle for Legal Control
Modern Law Review , volume 54 , issue 6 Posted: 1991
Crossref
R Mikael , Yves Madsen , Dezalay
The Power of the Legal Field: Pierre Bourdieu and the Law , p. 196 - 97 Posted: 2002
Yves Dezalay , Bryant Garth
Law, Lawyers and Social Capital: 'Rule of Law' Versus Relational Capitalism ' (1997) 6 Social and Legal Studies , p. 118 - 150
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,036
RANK
627,303
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies