Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation of Management Accounting Practices and Techniques

IGI Global, p. 10, 2015, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Sep 2014

Davood Askarany

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: September 3, 2014

Abstract

This article is intended to help us document the innovation, evolution and the adoption of a variety of relatively new management accounting techniques and practices in organisations. In doing so, the article first reviews the introduction of management accounting techniques of the past few decades in the literature and then investigates their implementations in practice. Exploring the levels of organizational satisfactions with adopted management accounting innovations in practice, the article finally discusses the level of associations between the adoption of management accounting innovations and organisational satisfaction.

Keywords: Accounting, Innovation, Diffusion and Management Accounting

JEL Classification: M1, M2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Askarany, Davood, Innovation of Management Accounting Practices and Techniques (September 3, 2014). IGI Global, p. 10, 2015, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491334
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies