Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping the Families of Tax

Virginia Journal of Social Policy and the Law, Vol. 22, No. 2 (2014)

62 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2014 Last revised: 9 Mar 2016

Tessa Davis

University of South Carolina - Joseph F. Rice School of Law

Date Written: September 11, 2014

Abstract

The Tax Code contains not one, but two conceptions of family. Existing scholarship does not address this puzzle but instead takes one of two views on the family — either the family is a tool for avoiding taxes or it is a source of discrimination. Current scholars, motivated by the discrimination concern, reject the relevance of kinship to tax and argue for an increasing focus on the individual. This Article takes a different approach. Utilizing the status/contract distinction familiar to family law scholars, it explains the puzzle of the multiple families in the Code, identifying the two families of the Code and their respective functions. Specifically, this Article shows that when we convey benefits through the Code we understand family as broad and contract-based. On the other hand, when our goal is to root out or head off tax gaming and avoidance, we constrict our notion of family to that of the nuclear, status-based family. Current reform proposals undervalue the importance of family to the prevention of avoidance and evasion, make targeting beneficial provisions more difficult, and inhibit the challenging work of reforming the Code to be both administratively feasible and non-discriminatory. Contrary to existing scholarship, this Article argues we should neither cut kinship from the Code nor rely exclusively upon the contract family. Instead, this Article creates a framework for modernizing the tax treatment of the family that draws upon kinship and both the status and contract families to maintain fairness and administrability and utilizes that framework to make preliminary reforms to existing law.

Keywords: taxation, family law, tax policy

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Tessa, Mapping the Families of Tax (September 11, 2014). Virginia Journal of Social Policy and the Law, Vol. 22, No. 2 (2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494839
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
EITC Income Limits, Maximum Credit Amounts and Tax Law Updates, IRS Posted: 2014-12-06
Crossref
I R C
Section 32 provides the details of the phase out and phase in rates, limitation on investment income, definition of qualifying child and earned income necessary to determine the credit amount. For those interested in seeing the effects of family size and earned income on the amount of credit for which an individual is eligible, IRS Publication 596 provides detailed information on the credit and determining eligibility
Earned Income Credit Posted: 2012-12-18
Rev. Proc. 2013-35
Crossref
For a discussion of the marriage penalty in the EITC, see, e.g., Dorothy A. Brown, The Tax Treatment of Children: Separate but Unequal
54 EMORY L.J , volume 755 , p. 806 - 813 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
890
RANK
872,691
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies