Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Changes Streamlined OVDP Reducing FBAR Penalty Exposure!

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, June-July 2014

8 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2014

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: September 11, 2014

Abstract

U.S. taxpayers with previously undisclosed interests in foreign financial accounts and assets continue to analyze and seek advice regarding the most appropriate methods of coming into compliance with their U.S. filing and reporting obligations. Many are pursuing participation in the IRS offshore voluntary disclosure program (the OVDP, which began in 2012 — modeled after similar programs in 2009 and 2011).

The expanded 2014 streamlined procedures are available to a wider population of U.S. taxpayers living outside the country and, for the first time, to certain U.S. taxpayers residing in the United States.

The vast majority of taxpayers having previously undisclosed interests in a foreign financial account or asset likely believe they are more “non-willful” than not. The issue is whether the IRS will agree. the government may have or subsequently receive information that does not support such status.

Taxpayers will sleep better if they get it right, somehow get into compliance and move on in life.

Keywords: OVDP, OVDI, IRS, internal revenue service, FBAR, FBAR penalty, tax penalty, Form 114, streamlined procedures, IRS streamlined procedures, offshore, IRS offshore program

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., IRS Changes Streamlined OVDP Reducing FBAR Penalty Exposure! (September 11, 2014). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, June-July 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
IRS Makes Changes to Offshore Programs; Revisions Ease Burden and Help More Taxpayers Come into Compliance Posted: 2014-06-18
IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Efforts Produce $6.5 Billion; 45,000 Taxpayers Participate , FS-2014-6 Posted: 2014-06
U S See , Taxpayers
Residing Outside the United States, Eligibility for the Streamlined Foreign Offshore Procedures, available online at www. irs.gov/Individuals/International-Taxpayers
U S See , Taxpayers
Residing in the United States, Eligibility for the Streamlined Domestic Offshore Procedures, available online at www. irs.gov/Individuals/International-Taxpayers/U-STaxpayers-Residing-in-the
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,662
RANK
375,525
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies