Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
2014 IRS Tax Enforcement Priorities and Practice Tips from the Tax Trenches

Valley Lawyer, April 2014

6 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2014

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: September 11, 2014

Abstract

2014 Tax Enforcement Priorities - IRS. The international arena will continue to test the enforcement resources of the IRS for many years. For those with undeclared foreign accounts, now is the time to come into compliance - waiting is simply not a viable option.

Other examination priorities based on a perceived degree of noncompliance include the potential abuse of mortgage interest limitations by claiming deductions exceeding limitations in multiple years; Section 1031 like-kind exchanges; real estate dispositions; employment tax and worker classifications - independent contractor vs. employee status - together with issues regarding executive compensation and fringe benefits; NOL carry-forwards, etc.

Tips From the Tax Trenches. If an examination problem seems overwhelming, consider contacting the Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS). TAS is an independent organization within the IRS whose employees assist taxpayers who are experiencing economic harm, who are seeking help in resolving tax problems that have not been resolved through normal channels, or who believe that an IRS system or procedure is not working as it should.

The IRS Audit Techniques Guides (ATGs) focus on developing highly trained examiners for a particular market segment or issue. It is often advisable to submit a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) following the un-agreed resolution of a federal tax examination. It should also help tailor your discussions at the next administrative level while providing insight into what the next government representative assigned to the case will be reviewing.

If a taxpayer interview is necessary and otherwise unavoidable (it is always avoidable in a potentially criminal sensitive issue case), the interview should occur far into the audit process such that the representative can appropriately assist the taxpayer in preparing for the interview. The representative should attempt to obtain as much information about the issues, the information within the agent’s possession and the government’s position with regard to the issues, before agreeing to submit the taxpayer to an interview.

Keywords: IRS, IRS examination, tax dispute, tax enforcement, tax examination

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., 2014 IRS Tax Enforcement Priorities and Practice Tips from the Tax Trenches (September 11, 2014). Valley Lawyer, April 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494962
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program Posted: 2012-01-24
Irc §163
Taxpayers should be prepared to fully document losses incurred in the recessionary economy of Posted: 2008
Taxpayer Advocate Service Posted: 2014-03-07
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,244
RANK
631,616
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies