Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Electronic Commerce and Developing Countries

13 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2014

Emmanuel Kolawole Oke

University of Edinburgh

Date Written: July 3, 2011

Abstract

The focus of this chapter will be to assess the potential impact that electronic commerce can have on the tax base of developing countries. The analysis will be done against the background of the existing rules on international taxation. Even before the advent of electronic commerce, the existing principles on international taxation have been lopsided in favour of the developed countries. Therefore, in analyzing the potential impact of electronic commerce on the tax base of developing countries, it is essential to come up with an appropriate model that will suit the peculiar circumstances of most developing countries.

The fact remains that most developing countries are importers of digital products from developed countries. This means that, businesses based in these developed countries, can derive lots of profits from consumers of digital products in developing countries but these foreign businesses can escape taxation because the emergence of the internet has made it unnecessary for them to have permanent establishments in these developing countries.

In order to prevent a situation akin to that of the interstate taxation of electronic commerce within the United States from happening in developing countries, it is necessary for developing countries to come up with proactive and creative strategies to protect their tax base from further erosion. It is suggested here that the best way to do that is to shift the focus from taxation of incomes and profits derived from electronic commerce to one based on consumption taxation.

Keywords: Taxation, Electronic Commerce, Developing Countries, Tax Base, Consumption Tax

Suggested Citation:

Oke, Emmanuel Kolawole, Taxation of Electronic Commerce and Developing Countries (July 3, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2494050 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2494050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,498
RANK
354,141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies