Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Presentation of Other Comprehensive Income: Is There a Relationship with the Total Amount, the Sign and the Volatility of Such Accounting Items?

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2014/16

18 Pages Posted: 13 Sep 2014

Marisa Agostini

Ca Foscari University of Venice - Department of Management

Date Written: September 2014

Abstract

The paper analyzes the ways of reporting other comprehensive income (OCI) and their relationships with three different variables, i.e. the volatility, the sign and the total amount of such accounting items. In order to investigate the reasons of such relationships, the study considers the final annual financial statements approved for the accounting periods from 2009 (i.e. the first year in which the 2007 revision of IAS 1 was applied) to 2012 by Italian companies which are required to apply the International Financial Reporting Standards and to follow their updates since 2005. The choice of this specific sample is due to the willingness of verifying the ways of departing from a strong Italian accounting traditional culture which does not consider other comprehensive income (OCI items have never been mentioned by Italian civil code and have not been included in Italian financial reporting). Some preliminary results emphasize the relevance of OCI items. In each accounting period, the majority of the analyzed financial statements show a significant impact of OCI on net income (each amount in absolute value) over a materiality threshold of 10%. In some years also the difference between ROE measured with net income (NI) and ROE measured with comprehensive income (CI) is statistically significant. It demonstrates that the prominence of OCI in evaluating firms’ performance potentially should not be ignored. Moreover, the median of changes in OCI is greater than the one of changes in net income, showing that OCI is more volatile than NI. After such preliminary analysis, a logistic analysis has been implemented by considering the above-mentioned variables. Such study brings some important results confirming the significance of the relations between the ways of reporting other comprehensive income and both the sign and the total amount of such accounting items. The analysis has been implemented by using also different versions of the dependent variable in order to investigate the impact of the OCI presentation in two statements which are positioned in two different (i.e. following) pages. So, while the predominance in the use of two statements for OCI presentation shows the willingness to emphasize the traditional profit or loss section and may be related to the influence of a strong Italian accounting traditional culture, the reasons of the use of two different pages for such presentation may represent the signal of “accounts management”.

Keywords: Other Comprehensive Income, Financial Statement Presentation, Volatility

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Agostini, Marisa, Presentation of Other Comprehensive Income: Is There a Relationship with the Total Amount, the Sign and the Volatility of Such Accounting Items? (September 2014). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2014/16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2495007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2495007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
L S Bamber , J X Jiang , K R Petroni , I Y Wang
Comprehensive income: who's afraid of performance reporting
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Barton , T B Hansen , G Pownall
Which performance measures do investors around the world value the most-And why
The Accounting Review , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 753 - 789 Posted: 2010
Crossref
E Bartov
Foreign currency exposure of multinational firms: Accounting measures and market valuation
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 14 , issue 4 , p. 623 - 652 Posted: 1997
Crossref
S Bhamornsiri , C Wiggins
Comprehensive income disclosure
The CPA Journal , volume 71 , p. 54 - 56 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
243
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,846
RANK
287,697
1 Citations
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies