Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mckesson Canada Decision: Further Guidance on the Transfer Pricing of Debt Factoring Arrangements

Transfer Pricing International Journal 2014, Forthcoming

5 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2014

Danny Beeton

Freshfields

Murray Clayson

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer - Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

The appeal of McKesson Canada Corporation (McKesson Canada) has been heard by the Tax Court of Canada which published its decision on 13 December 2013. The Court found for the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), accepting the CRA’s factoring discount of 1.013% in place of that to which the taxpayer had agreed of 2.206%. The decision provides valuable guidance on the transfer pricing of debt factoring arrangements, as well as wider views on what constitutes "recharacterisation" and when it is permissible, and the extent to which taxpayers can enter into agreements on uncommercial terms or terms which deny rights to related parties (and so justify a high transfer price paid to them) to an extreme extent.

On an interesting technical point, the court suggested that the important risk-shifting component of the factoring arrangement could have been priced separately by reference to insurance premia and credit default swaps (sources of information that were also referred to in GE Capital Canada). One wonders in this respect whether to do so could be to ignore the risk-shifting benefits and savings in contracting costs for the recipient of a bundled set of services, rather as the OECD’s Working Party 6 has noted in the context of franchise arrangement in its Revised Discussion Draft on the Transfer Pricing of Intangibles of 30 July 2013 (paragraphs 116-121).

Keywords: transfer pricing, OECD, factoring, arm's length

JEL Classification: H25, H20, H26, H87

Suggested Citation:

Beeton, Danny and Clayson, Murray and Macey-Dare, Rupert, The Mckesson Canada Decision: Further Guidance on the Transfer Pricing of Debt Factoring Arrangements (March 1, 2014). Transfer Pricing International Journal 2014, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2496871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2496871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,283
RANK
284,192
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies