Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reliability Makes Accounting Relevant: A Comment on the IASB Conceptual Framework Project

Accounting in Europe, Volume 11, Issue 2, pp. 211-217

15 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2014 Last revised: 8 Oct 2015

Andrew M. Bauer

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Patricia C. O'Brien

University of Waterloo

Umar Saeed

Welch LLP

Date Written: September 12, 2014

Abstract

In July 2013, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) welcomed comments to their discussion paper A Review of the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. We argue that the IASB should revisit its decisions about the concepts of reliability and prudence, to address the inherent accounting issue of moral hazard. Within the contexts of goodwill and securitization accounting, we illustrate how reliability and prudence can help standard-setters to identify standards that can address moral hazard. We further illustrate the pervasiveness of moral hazard, using the context of executive compensation arrangements. Ultimately, we conclude that a strong conceptual framework should enhance the credibility of financial reporting. We view this as the fundamental role of accounting.

Keywords: credibility, Conceptual Framework, international accounting, moral hazard, prudence, reliability

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bauer, Andrew M. and O'Brien, Patricia C. and Saeed, Umar, Reliability Makes Accounting Relevant: A Comment on the IASB Conceptual Framework Project (September 12, 2014). Accounting in Europe, Volume 11, Issue 2, pp. 211-217, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2497563 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2497563
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
D Aboody , M E Barth , R Kasznik
Do firms understate stock option-based compensation expense disclosed under SFAS 123?
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 11 , p. 429 - 461 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P André , A Filip , L Paugam
Impact of Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Conditional Conservatism in Europe
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting
Crossref
Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems Posted: 2010-06
W C Booth , G G Colomb , J M Williams
The Craft of Research Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
587
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,692
RANK
106,137
5 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies