Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rule of Law as a Law of Standards: Interpreting the Internal Revenue Code

64 Duke Law Journal Online 53 (2015)

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-33

42 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2014 Last revised: 28 Jan 2015

Alice Abreu

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Richard Greenstein

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: October 10, 2014

Abstract

Although fields of law ordinarily comprise both rules and standards, and foundational tax scholars such as Professors Surrey, Warren, and Bittker understood the importance of standards in tax law, many tax scholars and professionals have come to regard federal tax law as “the paradigmatic system of rules.” The vision of tax-as-rules is particularly alluring because rules have been associated with rule-of-law values, and it seems that the rule of law might be especially important in the field of taxation. The rule of law constrains the coercive power of government, and perhaps few powers are viewed with as much suspicion as the taxing power. Our claim that the existence of many rules in the tax law does not dictate the interpretation of all tax formulations as rules seems to threaten critical rule-of-law values. Nevertheless, we believe with Surrey and Warren that tax, like other areas of law, can flourish only if the IRS and the courts are able to respond to “unforeseen cases as they arise” and that this flexibility demands that many Code provisions be interpreted as standards. We also believe that this use of standards does not threaten rule-of-law values. In this essay we defend both propositions.

To do so we engage pointedly with Professor Larry Zelenak’s critique of the position we took in our earlier article, Defining Income, where we claimed that the category of “gross income” in the Internal Revenue Code is best understood as a standard, not a rule. In Custom and the Rule of Law in the Administration of the Income Tax, Professor Zelenak worried that our position threatened the rule of law by “stretch[ing] beyond the breaking point” the concept of interpretation. This essay, which elaborates the argument made in Defining Income, engages directly with Professor Zelenak’s critique and further develops our position that although there are both correct and incorrect interpretations, interpreting a legal formulation as a flexible standard rather than a rigid rule is not lawless. Like Professor Zelenak, we draw on examples from the world of corporate taxation, including iconic cases such as Gregory v. Helvering, as well as more recent controversial pronouncements such as Notice 2008-83, in which the IRS concluded that section 382 did not apply to banks, only to be sharply rebuked by Congress.

Keywords: tax, rule of Law, income, rules, standards, Zelenak, Scalia, interpretation, enforcement, discretion, Notice 2003-83, section 382, Gregory, reorganization, IRS, deviations, nonenforcement prosecutorial discretion, interpretive authority, underenforcement, Glenshaw Glass, ejusdem generis, frequent

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Abreu, Alice and Greenstein, Richard, The Rule of Law as a Law of Standards: Interpreting the Internal Revenue Code (October 10, 2014). 64 Duke Law Journal Online 53 (2015), Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2497479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
That is not to say that interpretations cannot be criticized as better or worse, just as Lee Sheppard criticizes Treasury's interpretation of "by reason of the death of the insured" as mistaken. Zelenak, supra note 1
125. Zelenak, supra note 1
S. Ct , volume 704 Posted: 2011
I R C
, volume 6053 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Zelenak
allowing the IRS to estimate aggregate tips received by restaurant employees when assessing FICA taxes on unreported tips due from the restaurant rather than estimating each individual employee's tip income)
at , volume 238 , issue 1 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,441
RANK
432,122
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies