Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure of Price Sensitive Information – The Peculiar Case of the MTR Corporation

31 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2014 Last revised: 11 Nov 2014

Chee Keong Low

Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) - School of Accountancy

Tak Hay Low

Shatin College

Date Written: September 22, 2014

Abstract

The MTR Corporation Limited had through a press briefing by Mr Chew Tai-chong, its Projects Director, on 15 April 2014 announced that the opening of the Hong Kong section of the Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link would be delayed by two years to 2017. Despite the potential significance on its financial results, the company surprisingly did not make any announcement as regards price sensitive information.

This article argues that the failure to do so placed the company and its officers in breach of the Securities and Futures Ordinance and that any failure by the Securities and Futures Commission to act will not bode well for the enforcement of securities laws in Hong Kong.

Keywords: Price Sensitive Information, Disclosure, Hong Kong

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Low, Chee Keong and Low, Tak Hay, Disclosure of Price Sensitive Information – The Peculiar Case of the MTR Corporation (September 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2499366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2499366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Construction and Commissioning of the Hong Kong Section of the Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link dated 2 May Posted: 2014-09
52(a) which was highlighted to the Audit Committee Posted: 2013-02
Ibid at paragraph 52(b) which was highlighted to the Posted: 2013-03
The MOR is essentially a 'scaled down soft launch' of the XRL which envisages limitations of service that are likely to be in breach of the terms of the Entrustment Agreement signed with the government. This proposal was presented to the MTR's Executive Committee which was chaired by Mr Jay Walder the then Chief Executive Officer in Posted: 2013-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,764
RANK
290,067
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies