Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Maintenance in a Contemporary Context

25 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2014 Last revised: 9 Jul 2015

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Date Written: February 10, 2015

Abstract

This paper provides an overview for understanding the concept of capital maintenance and its relation to measurement. While there is extensive prior literature on this issue the focus of this literature is to provide a taxonomy of various methods of inflation accounting. This paper summarises the issue of capital maintenance in a contemporary context (i.e., the International Accounting Standards Board’s Framework project). The conclusions are (1) that capital maintenance is a necessary (but not sufficient) adjustment for income to be determined, (2) that measurement and capital maintenance are independent concepts, (3) lifetime income is the same under various measurement methods but differs across concepts capital maintenance, (4) that items of other comprehensive income can be justified on the basis they represent the maintenance of operating capital and the recycling of these items should not be allowed, and (5) that current practice is mostly nominal dollar capital maintenance, but has other elements.

Keywords: capital maintenance, asset measurement, IFRS, conceptual framework, other comprehensive income, recycling inflation accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E., Capital Maintenance in a Contemporary Context (February 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2500017 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2500017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Financial statements restated for general price-level changes
AICPA , issue 3 Posted: 1969
Reporting the effects of price-level changes
Accounting Research Study , issue 6 Posted: 1963
R Barker
Reporting financial performance'. Accounting Horizons , volume 18 , p. 157 - 172 Posted: 2004
R J Chambers
Accounting, Evaluation, and Economic Behaviour Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
362
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,929
RANK
188,584
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies