Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
LLC Material Participation Policy Shift: New Regulations Focus on Management Rights

Journal of Legal Issues and Cases in Business, 2014

21 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2015

Tad D. Ransopher

Georgia State University

Lucia Smeal

Georgia State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 24, 2014

Abstract

Until it issued proposed regulations in November 2011, the IRS had treated members of limited liability companies (LLC's) and limited liability partnerships (LLP's) presumptively as limited partners for purposes of the passive loss limitations under an outdated set of Sec. 469 temporary regulations issued in 1988. After losing several significant court cases, the IRS has relented and changed its limited partner test, shifting the focus from limited liability to managerial responsibility. The courts have held that LLC and LLP members should not presumptively be treated as "limited partners" when applying the regulations' material participation tests because state law allows members of these hybrid entities to participate in management. Thus, managing members frequently can meet one of the general material participation tests. While the IRS has taken a first step to resolve the issue, the proposed rules are unclear in some respects, and the new policy will not take effect until the regulations are finalized. The IRS also missed an opportunity to address a related LLC issue, the treatment of LLC members for purposes of the self-employment tax. Still, a significant policy shift has taken place that more accurately reflects the prevailing methods of doing business as a member-managed Limited Liability Company.

Keywords: Passive losses, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, material participation, member, limited partner, general partner

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Ransopher, Tad D. and Smeal, Lucia, LLC Material Participation Policy Shift: New Regulations Focus on Management Rights (September 24, 2014). Journal of Legal Issues and Cases in Business, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2501011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
Keightley
Crossref
Id
, volume 9
Id
I R C
, volume 469
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,154
RANK
785,592
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies