Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legislative Interface between the Creation of a Liability to Tax and the Right to Challenge that Liability

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

28 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2014

Sylvia Villios

University of Adelaide

Date Written: August 6, 2014

Abstract

The "conclusive evidence" provisions in the taxation legislation have the effect of establishing conclusively (except in Pt IVC proceedings) that the amount and all the particulars in a notice of assessment produced by the Commissioner are correct. Provision is made in Pt IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) (TAA) for objections to assessments and for reviews by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and appeals to the Federal Court. Together, the conclusive evidence provisions and Pt IVC of the TAA give voice to a legislative policy in respect of the interface between the creation of a liability to tax upon assessment under statute by an officer of the Executive, the Commissioner and the constitutionally necessary ability for the recipient of an assessment to be able to challenge that asserted liability by an invocation of judicial power. Sections 14ZZM and s14ZZR of the TAA also give voice to a legislative policy in respect of this legislative interface. This paper examines the operation of this legislative interface and highlights that the current taxation regime does not adequately address the protection of taxpayers against the impact of erroneous assessments.

Suggested Citation:

Villios, Sylvia, The Legislative Interface between the Creation of a Liability to Tax and the Right to Challenge that Liability (August 6, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2503257
Purchase - $45
15 References
Australian Taxation Office, Practice Statement Law Administration PS LA 2011/23. 106 Sections14ZZL and 14ZZQ TAA
Title 26 Section 6213 United States Code
Ibid
Crossref
Subsection164 (1.1) Income Tax Act (Canada)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,169
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies