Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Primacy of Client Privilege: Designing a Statutory Tax Advice Privilege for Accredited Non-Lawyer Tax Advisors

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

34 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2014

Nicole Wilson-Rogers

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Annette Morgan

Curtin University

Dale Pinto

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: July 4, 2014

Abstract

There are several types of professional groups that provide tax advice in Australia: lawyers, accountants, and financial advisors, many of whom are registered tax agents. In many cases, the type of advice provided is the same; however, currently whilst lawyers can extend to their clients a blanket legal professional privilege ("LPP") over confidential tax advice, clients of non-lawyer tax advisors ("NLTAs") are presently only granted an administrative concession by the Australian Taxation Office ("ATO") and then only over a limited range of documents. This article argues in favour of the enactment of a separate statutory tax advice privilege in Australia for accredited NLTAs and suggests a framework for determining which taxation professionals should be able to offer a tax advice privilege to their clients.

Suggested Citation:

Wilson-Rogers, Nicole and Morgan, Annette and Pinto, Dale, The Primacy of Client Privilege: Designing a Statutory Tax Advice Privilege for Accredited Non-Lawyer Tax Advisors (July 4, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2503267
Purchase - $45
17 References
See Division 230 of the ITAA Posted: 1997
Grant V Downs
Posted: 1976
J Tse , J Roberts
The accountant's concession time for a rethink? Posted: 2010
Australia's Future Tax System Review Overview, (2010) states that 72% of Australian taxpayers seek advice from a tax agent in respect of their tax affairs. The ATO Tax Statistics Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
22
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,424
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies