Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Now You See It Now You Don’t: Who Is the Taxpayer in the Macquarie Bank Case

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

16 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2014

Antony Ting

University of Sydney

Date Written: June 25, 2014

Abstract

The Macquarie Bank case is possibly the modern case on the issue “who is the taxpayer.” However, it differs from Federal Coke on a critical point. While the Commissioner failed to identify the correct taxpayer in Federal Coke, there is no chance that he could have identified the correct taxpayer in Macquarie Bank. This is because, through the magic of the consolidation regime, the correct taxpayer did not exist at all.

Macquarie Bank Ltd successfully took advantage of the consolidation regime and reduced an otherwise taxable gain of $318 million to $41 million. The ATO challenged the arrangement under Part IVA, but was in vain. The interaction between the consolidation regime and Part IVA dictates that the company – that, in the absence of the scheme, would have made the gain of $318 million – was no longer a taxpayer under the definition of “tax benefit” in Part IVA. Despite the desperate attempt of issuing duplicate assessments with respect to the same $318 million gain to two different companies, the Commissioner was doomed to defeat, as no taxpayer could have obtained a “tax benefit”.

This outcome defies common sense and highlights the difficult interaction between the enterprise doctrine – under which a corporate group is treated as one single enterprise for income tax purposes – and the separate entity doctrine which treats each company as a separate taxpayer, even if the company is a wholly owned subsidiary of another company. This paper first reviews the facts and decisions of the case. This is followed by the analysis of two key issues arising from the case with respect to the interaction between the consolidation regime and Part IVA: the issue of “who is the taxpayer”, and the problematic application of the definition of “tax benefit” to a consolidated group.

The paper then explores possible policy options to address not only the particular issues arising in the Macquarie Bank case, but also the more general problem of inserting a strong application of the enterprise doctrine in the income tax system.

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Antony, Now You See It Now You Don’t: Who Is the Taxpayer in the Macquarie Bank Case (June 25, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2503235
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,296
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies