Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are You Prepared for XBRL? Lessons from the Field

Financial Executives International, 26(8), 30-33 (2010)

Posted: 29 Oct 2014 Last revised: 27 Jan 2015

Jon W. Bartley

North Carolina State University

Y. Al Chen

North Carolina State University

Eileen Zalkin Taylor

North Carolina State University

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

One key finding from the first year of implementing eXtensible Business Reporting Language is that getting it right is critical, since errors or noncompliance can trigger an amended filing and possibly damage a company’s reputation. This article discusses the impacts of the SEC requiring the use of XBRL as well as the steps that are critical to a successful implementation.

Keywords: XBRL, IT, Financial Statements, Audit, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Bartley, Jon W. and Chen, Y. Al and Taylor, Eileen Zalkin, Are You Prepared for XBRL? Lessons from the Field (2010). Financial Executives International, 26(8), 30-33 (2010), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504348
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies