Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhanced Protections for Whistleblowers Under the Dodd-Frank Act

The CPA Journal, 83(1), 66-71 (2013)

Posted: 15 Oct 2014

Eileen Zalkin Taylor

North Carolina State University

Jordan Thomas

Labaton Keller Sucharow LLP

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

The article offers a practical guidance for Certified Public Accountant (CPAs) on the responsibilities, rights and risks involved in detecting possible securities, violations given the whistleblower provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act and the rules established by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) allows accountants to report any possible violation of the federal securities laws that has occurred, is ongoing or about to occur anywhere in the world.

Keywords: Accounting, Accountants, Responsibility, Dodd-Frank Act, Whistleblowers, Fraud

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Eileen Zalkin and Thomas, Jordan, Enhanced Protections for Whistleblowers Under the Dodd-Frank Act (January 1, 2013). The CPA Journal, 83(1), 66-71 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504213
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,532
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies