Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
International Tax, the G20 and the Asia Pacific: From Competition to Cooperation?

Asia and the Pacific Policy Studies (APPS), vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 484–496

13 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2014

Miranda Stewart

University of Melbourne - Law School; New York University School of Law; Australian National University (ANU) - Crawford School of Public Policy

Date Written: August 7, 2014

Abstract

Nation states in the Asia Pacific need to increase tax revenues but face many challenges. This article discusses the challenge of taxation in an age of capital mobility and tax competition. It then considers two opportunities that have recently been championed by the G20, which could enable governments to strengthen national tax systems by international cooperation. The first opportunity is the establishment of transnational tax administrative cooperation. The second opportunity is the potential for countries to develop a new multilateral framework for sharing the international capital tax base, which may arise under auspices of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project. As Chair of the G20 in 2014, Australia has a key leadership role to play in supporting countries in the region to grasp these opportunities.

Keywords: international tax; tax haven; G20; tax competition; ASEAN; OECD; BEPS; fiscal policy; tax treaties

Suggested Citation:

Stewart, Miranda, International Tax, the G20 and the Asia Pacific: From Competition to Cooperation? (August 7, 2014). Asia and the Pacific Policy Studies (APPS), vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 484–496, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Asean/World , Bank
Posted: 2013-07
Crossref
Avi-Yonah R
International Tax as International Law: An Analysis of the International Tax Regime Posted: 2007
K Bell
China's SAT Moving Needle on OECD Intangibles Guidance, Influencing BEPS Action on Country-By-Country Reporting
BNA Bloomberg Report Posted: 2014-01
Improving Tax Administration in Developing Countries
IMF Posted: 1992
Load more
1 Citations
Sooyoung Lee , Hyelin Choi , Hyuk-Hwang Kim , Min Suk Park , Sihoon Nahm
리쇼어링의 결정요인과 정책 효과성 연구 (Determinants of Reshoring and Effectiveness of Reshoring Policies)
KIEP Research Paper. Policy Analysis 18-02 · 206 Pages · Posted: 29 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 196
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,307
RANK
568,179
1 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies