Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The View from the Other Side: Staff Auditors' Observations of Questionable Peer Behavior

The CPA Journal, 82(6), 66-71 (2012)

Posted: 15 Oct 2014

Eileen Zalkin Taylor

North Carolina State University

Mary B. Curtis

University of North Texas

Lawrence Chui

University of St. Thomas - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 1, 2012

Abstract

This study classifies and reports public auditors’ observations of unethical behavior within their offices. Sixty-six of 238 survey respondents reported observing eighty instances of unethical behavior in their offices. The majority of behaviors are audit-related; although many are workplace related. Audit standards violations threaten audit quality, increasing litigation risk, while workplace behavior violations lead to demoralization and employee turnover, a significant threat given CPA firms’ focus on attracting and retaining qualified and talented professionals. Identification of these activities can help managers understand what types of activities that employees judge as unethical. With this knowledge, managers can begin to address employee concerns and work toward developing a positive organizational climate.

Keywords: auditors, ethics, audit quality, CPA firms

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Eileen Zalkin and Curtis, Mary B. and Chui, Lawrence, The View from the Other Side: Staff Auditors' Observations of Questionable Peer Behavior (June 1, 2012). The CPA Journal, 82(6), 66-71 (2012), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2504214
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies