Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Perspective on Supra-Nationality in Tax Law

Yariv Brauner and Pasquale Pistone (eds.), Taxation and the BRICS, IBFD 2015

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 425

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-019

7 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2014 Last revised: 30 Oct 2014

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: October 12, 2014

Abstract

The international tax regime is almost a hundred years old. Its basic principles were laid out by the report of the four economists (1923) and the first (League of Nations) model convention (1927). The world has changed tremendously since then with the advent of globalization and the more recent rise of the BRICS. Thus, it is not surprising that even the OECD is raising questions about ways in which the regime can be updated to fit the needs of the 21st century. In fact, the OECD BEPS project, which is driven to a large extent by the G20 and therefore is influenced by the BRICS (who are members of the G20), has the potential of significantly altering the contours of the international tax regime.

Keywords: BEPS, international tax, OECD

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., A Perspective on Supra-Nationality in Tax Law (October 12, 2014). Yariv Brauner and Pasquale Pistone (eds.), Taxation and the BRICS, IBFD 2015, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 425, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2508869 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2508869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
413
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,589
RANK
162,563
19 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies