Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wrestling Control from the Unicap Regulations: The Irrelevance of Quality Control in Determining Capitalizable Trademark Royalties

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2014

55 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2014

Glenn Walberg

University of Vermont - School of Business Administration

Date Written: September 19, 2014

Abstract

Taxpayers generally must capitalize direct and indirect costs attributable to their production of inventory. Due to uncertainty about whether this requirement applies to sales-based trademark royalties, the regulations now clarify that these royalties are indeed capitalizable as indirect production costs. However, the regulations also let taxpayers allocate these sales-based costs entirely to cost of goods sold. So, to the relief of taxpayers, the regulations have the practical effect of permitting immediate cost recovery — similar to a business expense deduction — for sales-based royalties.

This Article questions the rationale for treating trademark royalties as capitalizable indirect costs. It argues that the regulations inappropriately rely on a licensor’s retention of control over product quality to link a licensed mark with inventory production and hence treat the associated royalties as production costs. The Article finds such reliance inappropriate because every valid trademark license involves a retention of control and the significance of control has diminished in modern trademark law and licensing practices. The Article further explains how this focus on control inadvertently makes all trademark royalties (including minimum and upfront royalties) capitalizable as indirect costs and therefore potentially allocable to ending inventory.

Finally, the Article describes how the unique nature of trademarks complicates efforts to classify many royalties as capitalizable indirect costs. By stressing the actual use of a mark rather than licensing terms, the Article proposes that the regulations illustrate capitalizable indirect costs more narrowly by referencing royalties paid to license trademarked product designs. But the Article also contends that the regulations could appropriately treat trademark royalties as direct costs where, as happens with increasing frequency, a licensed mark becomes an integral part of the goods being produced.

Keywords: UNICAP, trademark, royalties

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Walberg, Glenn, Wrestling Control from the Unicap Regulations: The Irrelevance of Quality Control in Determining Capitalizable Trademark Royalties (September 19, 2014). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 16, No. 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2510008
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Without having methodologies for producing goods as a common reference point, it would become difficult to discern what might make an "other similar right," as mentioned in the UNICAP regulations, similar to the other items. 256. See supra Part III.B. 257. See supra text accompanying notes , p. 25 - 26
Wrestling Control from the UNICAP Regulations 269
Gerald T Tschura
Likelihood of Confusion and Expressive Functionality: A Fresh Look at the Ornamental Use of Institutional Colors, Names and Emblems on Apparel and Other Goods
53 WAYNE L. REV , volume 873 Posted: 2007
Consumers sometimes buy products bearing marks such as the Nike Swoosh, the Playboy bunny ears, the Mercedes tri-point star, the Ferrari stallion, and countless sports franchise logos, for the appeal of the mark itself Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,311
RANK
747,753
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies