Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adequacy or Inadequacy of Accounting Information in Annual Financial Reports: Methodological Analysis

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis Vol. 27 No. 1 (Jan-Jun 2014)

Posted: 20 Oct 2014 Last revised: 25 Oct 2014

M. R. K. Swamy

Om Sai Ram Centre for Financial Management Research

A. Soyode

University of Ibadan - Department of Economics

A. Ariyo

University of Ibadan - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 19, 2014

Abstract

The authors’ study focuses on information needs of (groups of) individuals and organizations both in terms of what is and what should be -- such needs must be discovered and analyzed if the services rendered by information reporting are to be improved. The authors’ research suggest that information contained in Annual Financial Reports (AFRs) in its present form explain small proportion of variation in market prices of publicity-quoted companies, indicating that the information contained in these reports may be inadequate for the users’ needs. Policy-wise, the findings suggest that mere additional disclosure may not always enhance the adequacy of information contained in AFRs -- rather, they suggest that the evolution of an efficient accounting information disclosure process requires an evolution of the likely impacts of existing information terms on the one being considered for disclosure.

Keywords: Information needs & reporting; Inadequate accounting information; Efficient accounting

JEL Classification: C52; E62; G31; M41; O55; N17

Suggested Citation:

Swamy, M. R. K. and Soyode, A. and Ariyo, A., Adequacy or Inadequacy of Accounting Information in Annual Financial Reports: Methodological Analysis (October 19, 2014). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis Vol. 27 No. 1 (Jan-Jun 2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2511883
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies