Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Reports

Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Oct 2014

Paul Coram

University of Adelaide - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

The auditor’s report is central to the value of the audit process. Research shows that the auditor’s report per se has value to users of financial reports. It provides users with an enhanced level of reliability and confidence in their evaluation of a company’s financial statements, and this chapter presents some of the research supporting this assertion. The auditor’s report is intended to communicate to users that reasonable assurance is provided by the auditor that there are no material misstatements in the financial statements. While users have a broad understanding of this, research suggests that there is a significant gap between auditors and users’ understanding of what is provided – often referred to as the ‘expectations gap’.

This lack of understanding by users often does not manifest itself in any particular issues as long as the audited entity continues to be a going concern. However, misperceptions are highlighted when there is a ‘crisis’ such as in 2008, and users start to ask why the auditor did not do more. It is in times such as these that the expectations gap becomes a prominent issue and focus is directed at what the auditor did or did not say in the auditor’s report. Related to (or contributing to) this gap, research also shows that the auditor’s report is generally not read beyond users evaluating whether it is modified or not – and perhaps to check whether it was audited by a Big 4 auditor or not. It should be noted that viewing the auditor’s report as a pass/fail document does provide some value to many users, but the evidence suggests that it also contributes to a significant lack of understanding of auditing. Research suggests that the standard or ‘boilerplate’ nature of auditor’s reports is also part of the problem. Related to this is the fact that auditor’s reports mainly focus on trying to explain what an audit is, whereas the research suggests that users want information about the specific audit that was conducted. Current proposals of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) suggest a few ways of making auditor’s reports more informative.

Keywords: Audit reports

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Coram, Paul J., Audit Reports (August 1, 2014). Routledge Companion to Auditing, edited by David Hay, W. Robert Knechel and Marleen Willekens, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2511957
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,500
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies