Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Not Tax the Rich? Review of Kleinbard’s 'We are Better Than This'

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 426

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-022

7 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2014 Last revised: 7 Nov 2014

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: October 18, 2014

Abstract

Ed Kleinbard’s new book, We Are Better Than This (OUP, 2014), is a well-balanced and important contribution to the tax literature. Kleinbard convincingly sets out the case for addressing inequality not through taxation but rather through spending. While the emphasis on treating both sides of the federal budget ledger with equal respect is not new (Michael Graetz, for one, said it in the 1980s), Kleinbard updates the analysis and addresses it to a wider audience. Kleinbard’s book is also well positioned as an antidote to Thomas Piketty’s obsession with taxing the rich. The problem with the book, however, is that its proposed solutions are much too narrow.

Keywords: Tax reform, progressive taxation

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Why Not Tax the Rich? Review of Kleinbard’s 'We are Better Than This' (October 18, 2014). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 426, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2511575 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2511575
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,044
RANK
170,582
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies