Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountancy Service Requirements of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises in the Philippines

International Journal of Business, Economics and Law, Vol. 4, Issue 1 (June 2014)

10 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014

Rufo R. Mendoza

Asian Institute of Management

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

This study surveyed micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to determine the type of accountancy services they require from individual CPAs or firms of CPAs who are engaged in public accountancy practice. The service requirements were deduced from the type of services the respondent SMEs currently outsource to these practising CPAs. The study found out that the service required by most respondents is taxation service and the least is internal audit. MSMEs also require consulting, accounting, and independent audit. Certain business profiles of the MSMEs like asset size, nature of business, form of business organization, and employment size were found related in varying degrees to the services that they require. Micro and small enterprises differ to a certain extent from the medium enterprises as they require fewer and simpler services. The practical implication of the findings of the study from the point of view of the practising CPAs is that micro and small enterprises represent a relatively small market. On the other hand, it can be inferred that these enterprises signify market challenges for the practising CPAs. Thus, this calls for appropriate strategic move on the part of the practising CPAs in terms of service development and marketing.

Keywords: accountancy service, MSMEs, service outsourcing, business profile

Suggested Citation:

Mendoza, Rufo Rosales, Accountancy Service Requirements of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises in the Philippines (June 1, 2014). International Journal of Business, Economics and Law, Vol. 4, Issue 1 (June 2014), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512254
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Robert N Anthony , F David , Kenneth A Hawkins , Merchant
Accounting text and cases. 13 th Edition Posted: 2011
Alvin A Arens , Randal J Elder , Mark S Beasley
Fundamentals of auditing and assurance services. 11 th Edition Posted: 2006
Paper F8 audit and assurance (International) study text
International Tax Dialogue Conference on Taxation of Small and Medium Enterprises. Retrieved February Posted: 2007
Amit Bouri , Mark Breij , Magatte Diop , Randall Kempner , Bailey Klinger , Keely Stevenson
Report on support to SMEs in developing countries through financial intermediaries. European Investment Bank Posted: 2011-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,458
RANK
34,585
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies