Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Team-Oriented Leadership and Auditors’ Willingness to Raise Audit Issues

Accounting Review, doi 10.2308/accr-51399, Forthcoming

59 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2014 Last revised: 17 Dec 2019

Mark W. Nelson

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Chad A. Proell

University of North Texas- Ryan College of Business -Department of Accounting

Amy Randel

San Diego State University

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

This paper reports five studies examining audit team members’ willingness to raise audit issues. The first study is a survey of interacting audit teams that provides evidence that team members are more willing to speak up when they view their leader as team oriented (i.e., emphasizing team success as opposed to the leader’s own personal advancement). Experiments 1-3 provide converging evidence that audit seniors are more willing to speak up to a team-oriented leader and about issues that are aligned with that leader’s concerns. Experiment 4 provides evidence that the effect of team-oriented leadership on willingness to speak up is mediated by team members’ commitment to the team leader, and to a lesser extent by their identification with their team, but not by concerns about the immediate or eventual repercussions of speaking up. Together these studies provide evidence that auditors’ willingness to raise audit issues is affected by what the auditor has to say and how they think their message will be received, potentially affecting audit effectiveness and audit efficiency.

Keywords: Audit teams, information sharing, audit efficiency, audit effectiveness, audit risk, auditor performance assessment, leadership, employee voice, staff turnover, survey, experiment

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, Mark W. and Proell, Chad A. and Randel, Amy, Team-Oriented Leadership and Auditors’ Willingness to Raise Audit Issues (January 20, 2016). Accounting Review, doi 10.2308/accr-51399, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2512262 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2512262
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
AICPA)
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit, statement on auditing standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
D F Arnold , L A Ponemon
Internal auditors' perceptions of whistle-blowing and the influence of moral reasoning: An experiment
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 1991
S J Ashford , N P Rothbard , S K Piderit , J E Dutton
Out on a limb: The role of context and impression management in selling gender-equity issues
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 43 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 57 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
225
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,517
RANK
310,241
32 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies