Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
External Auditors’ Perceptions of and Willingness to Work in Outsourced and In-House Internal Audit Functions

35 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2014 Last revised: 23 Sep 2015

Geoffrey D. Bartlett

Drake University

Joleen Kremin

Portland State University

K. Kelli Saunders

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 22, 2015

Abstract

While the internal audit function (IAF) plays a critical role in organizations, it faces challenges in finding sufficient numbers of high-quality job applicants to fill its ranks. We examine experienced external auditors’ perceptions of internal auditing and how their perceptions may influence the nature of communications they have with job-seeking students about careers in internal audit. The results of two experiments suggest that practicing external auditors are twice as likely to apply for positions that are labeled as accounting positions rather than either in-house or outsourced internal audit positions. The results also suggest that external auditors believe there are negative perceptions of internal auditors — especially in-house internal auditors relative to outsourced internal auditors — and are more likely to recommend that mediocre students apply to work in internal auditing. We also provide survey results from experienced professionals that identify aspects of internal auditing that may be improved to make it a more attractive career option. Taken together, the results suggest internal auditing faces hiring challenges, but these challenges may be mitigated — which can have important ramifications for the important role internal auditing serves in the business world.

Keywords: Internal Audit, Hiring Decisions, Outsourcing, External Auditors

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49, G3, G34, M5, M51, M54

Suggested Citation:

Bartlett, Geoffrey D. and Kremin, Joleen and Saunders, K. Kelli and Wood, David A., External Auditors’ Perceptions of and Willingness to Work in Outsourced and In-House Internal Audit Functions (September 22, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2513878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2513878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
Sunita S Ahlawat , D. Jordan Lowe
An examination of internal auditor objectivity: in-house versus outsourcing
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 23 , issue 2 Posted: 2004
Crossref
AICPA). 1991. The Auditor's Consideration of the Internal Audit Function in an Audit of Financial Statements. Statement on Auditing Standards No. 65
U L Anderson , M H Christ , K M Johnstone , L E Rittenberg
A post-SOX examination of factors associated with the size of internal audit functions
Accounting Horizons , volume 26 , issue 2 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Barbara Arel
The influence of litigation risk and internal audit source on reliance decisions
Advances in Accounting , issue 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,305
RANK
233,376
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies