Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Multi-Dimensional Ethical Approach to Accounting and Reporting Practices

Singh, Ajay Kr. and Dhingra, Pooja (2013), A Multi-Dimensional Ethical Approach to Accounting and Reporting Practices, Applied Studies and Agribusiness and Commerce - APSTRACT, Vol. 7 No.4-5, pp.13-26. ISSN: 1789-221X, electronic version: ISSN 1789-7874; Annual CitEc/REPEC Impact factor is 0.54

15 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2014

Ajay Kumar Singh

Sri Sri University, on EOL from University of Delhi - Department of Commerce, Faculty of Commerce and Business, Delhi School of Economics

Pooja Dhingra

University of Delhi - Shri Ram College of Commerce

Date Written: October 24, 2014

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this research is to find out the multi-dimensional ethical approach to accounting and reporting practices going on in India and abroad. What has been the shift in Reporting Practices by Indian companies? What drives the Indian companies to report on the non-financial matters?

Design/methodology/approach – This paper mainly focuses on the inclusion of Non-Financial Matters in the Corporate Annual Reports. An Empirical Survey was carried out and the questionnaires were administered to 122 respondents comprising of 75 academicians and 47 chartered accountants. This paper compares the perceptions of academicians and accounting professionals on the ethical reporting practices of the Indian companies.

Findings – The results were tested using the t-test analysis. The research suggests that more companies should report on their environmental, social, and corporate governance performance and find a way to express them in their Annual Reports and the reporting of data regarding the carbon emissions, energy use, pollution, impact on the local economy, etc., should be made mandatory for companies.

Research limitations/implications – The research included respondents who are currently living in Delhi. For more generalized opinion nationwide survey can be carried out. Another important category of stakeholder for judging the usability of Corporate Annual Reports could be the Institutional Investors.

Practical implications – The results of this study would help the policy makers in framing the guidelines for standardized annual reports, synergizing social and business interest needs on top priority. Corporate philanthropy needs to transform into the realm of core business and corporate social responsibility. Integrated reporting could pave the way for synthesizing financial and non-financial reporting into one form and give a holistic view of companies’ strategies to its stakeholders incorporating new dimensions of IFRS.

Social implications – More emphasis on Non-financial matters will certainly contribute in making the corporates more responsible to the society, environment, and to the future generations.

Keywords: Corporate Annual Reports, Sustainability Reporting, Environmental Reporting, Multi-dimensional ethical reporting, Integrated Reporting

JEL Classification: L29, M41, M42, M49, Q01, Z0

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Ajay Kumar and Dhingra, Pooja, A Multi-Dimensional Ethical Approach to Accounting and Reporting Practices (October 24, 2014). Singh, Ajay Kr. and Dhingra, Pooja (2013), A Multi-Dimensional Ethical Approach to Accounting and Reporting Practices, Applied Studies and Agribusiness and Commerce - APSTRACT, Vol. 7 No.4-5, pp.13-26. ISSN: 1789-221X, electronic version: ISSN 1789-7874; Annual CitEc/REPEC Impact factor is 0.54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2514259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
A Cadbury
Ethical managers make their own rules
Harvard Business Review , volume 68 , p. 69 - 73 Posted: 1987
Crossref
Fds Choi , G G Mueller
International Accounting. New Jersey: Englewood Cliffs Posted: 2007
D Cormier , I M Gordon
An examination of social and environmental reporting strategies
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 14 , p. 587 - 616 Posted: 2001
Crossref
H Daske , G Gebhardt
International Financial Reporting Standards And Experts' Perception of Disclosure Quality
ABACUS , volume 42 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
287
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,677
RANK
242,798
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies