Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basel III vs Accounting Standards in the Liquidity Reporting

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2(2): 47-51, 2014

5 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2014

Nadia Cipullo

Link Campus University

Rosa Vinciguerra

University of Naples II - Dept. of Economics

Date Written: June 1, 2014

Abstract

Recent crisis has shown the failure of capital markets in satisfying the liquidity needs of agents. As a consequence, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is now paying attention to the matter of Liquidity Risk introducing provisions banks must comply with, in order to promote short-term and long-term resilience. At the same time, the IASB amended IAS 39 by introducing IFRS 9, which regulates the accounting treatment of financial instruments. Nevertheless the intent of the BCBS to discipline the Liquidity Risk and the effort of the IASB to introduce provisions designated to give relevant and useful information on the entity’s future cash flows, there are some critical points associated with those requirements and coming from the combined observations of both disciplines. The problems that will highlight derive from the different objectives of the regulatory and the accounting frameworks. The first one is to serve the safety and soundness of banks and the other is to serve the public interest in terms of transparency. For this reason the IASB should think about the chance to issue a standard specific for the banking sector. Indeed, the management of financial instruments while represents the core business in the latter, has just a secondary role in non-financial entities, so it is desirable to have a differential treatment. Moreover, as the dual reporting deriving forms the differences in both disciplines may generate political costs, it could be useful to recompose the different perspectives providing a supplementary disclosure to justify the two special purposes.

Keywords: Liquidity Risk, Reporting, IASB, Value, Business Model, Bank, Basel

JEL Classification: M41; G20; G30

Suggested Citation:

Cipullo, Nadia and Vinciguerra, Rosa, Basel III vs Accounting Standards in the Liquidity Reporting (June 1, 2014). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2(2): 47-51, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Addezio
Le banche e la liquidità, Dirigenza Bancaria , volume 159 , p. 20 - 22 Posted: 2013
E Banks
Liquidity Risk -Managing Funding and Asset Risk -Second Edition Posted: 2014
Amendment to the capital accord to incorporate market risks
BCBS-Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 1996
Bcbs -Basel
Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
334
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,418
RANK
206,173
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies