Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Missing Requirements on Disclosure Discipline Concerning Liquidity

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2(3): 64-68, 2014

5 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2014

Nadia Cipullo

Link Campus University

Rosa Vinciguerra

University of Naples II - Dept. of Economics

Date Written: June 2014

Abstract

Accounting standards can have a significant impact on the liquidity of an entity: both management decisions and the control exercised by supervisory Authorities are influenced by accounting information. Nevertheless the objective of the IASB is to provide users of financial statements with “relevant and useful information […] for their assessment of the amounts, timing and uncertainty of the entity’s future cash flows”, there are some critical points associated with those requirements, in particular for the banking sector. Indeed, it lacks to define the concept of liquidity and to pay attention to the economic maturity of certain items, which is important as well as their amounts. Moreover, given that the information contained in the statement of financial position and the statement of cash flows serves some limitations for the assessment of the liquidity profile of an entity, it is expected that these gaps are filled by the disclosure. Nevertheless, even IFRS 7 presents some deficiencies that will be underlined in this paper. It is believed that current requirements could be profitably complemented.

Keywords: Liquidity, Risk, Disclosure, Maturity, Cash Flow, Value, IASB, Bank

JEL Classification: M41, G20, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cipullo, Nadia and Vinciguerra, Rosa, Missing Requirements on Disclosure Discipline Concerning Liquidity (June 2014). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, 2(3): 64-68, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S Aureli , F Salvatori
Investigation of Risk Management and Risk Disclosure Practices of Italian Listed Local Utilities
Financial Reporting , volume 1 , p. 121 - 167 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Banks
Liquidity Risk -Managing Funding and Asset Risk -Second Edition Posted: 2014
BCBS -Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Posted: 2013
Crossref
Iii Basel
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Liquidity Risk Monitoring Tools
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
RANK
799,009
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies