Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current Practices and Challenges in Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Complex Estimates: Implications for Auditing Standards and the Academy

Glover, S. M., M. H. Taylor, and Y. Wu. 2016. Current Practices and Challenges in Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Complex Estimates: Implications for Auditing Standards and the Academy. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Oct 2014 Last revised: 26 May 2016

Steven M. Glover

Brigham Young University

Mark H. Taylor

University of South Florida, Muma College of Business, Lynn Pippenger School of Accountancy

Yi-Jing Wu

Texas Tech University - Rawls College of Business

Date Written: May 25, 2016

Abstract

Auditing fair value measurements and other complex estimates (hereafter FVMs) has received significant attention from regulators, practitioners and researchers. Using a survey, we gather data from audit partners with FVMs expertise to gain further insights in areas that have not been fully explored in the previous literature. Specifically, we extend the literature by providing a deeper understanding of the following areas: auditors’ use of different substantive approaches to test higher risk FVMs, auditors’ use of pricing services and valuation specialists, and how challenges differ when auditing financial vs. nonfinancial FVMs. In doing so, our findings and analyses extend prior research and coalesce pieces of several prior studies on auditing FVMs to provide a more complete picture of current auditing practices and challenges encountered by auditors. Our study provides insights useful in reconciling seemingly inconsistent findings in previous studies and provides important implications for future research, regulation and standards setting.

Keywords: Auditing fair value measurements and other complex estimates; pricing services; valuation specialists; financial fair value measurements; nonfinancial fair value measurements

Suggested Citation:

Glover, Steven M. and Taylor, Mark H. and Wu, Yi-Jing, Current Practices and Challenges in Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Complex Estimates: Implications for Auditing Standards and the Academy (May 25, 2016). Glover, S. M., M. H. Taylor, and Y. Wu. 2016. Current Practices and Challenges in Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Complex Estimates: Implications for Auditing Standards and the Academy. Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2515807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2515807
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,401
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies