Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framework for Analyzing Public Accountancy Practice as a Social Institution

International Journal of Business and Management (International Association of Multidisciplinary Research), 2014

14 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014 Last revised: 28 Jan 2015

Rufo R. Mendoza

Asian Institute of Management

Date Written: January 31, 2014

Abstract

Accountancy is regarded as one of the highly significant fields of discipline in contemporary societies. In recognizing its contributions to the larger society, this paper developed a framework to determine if public accountancy practice has become an institution, being a sector of society. The document analysis and review of literature provided the bases in coming up with three sets of variables upon which the institutionality of public accountancy practice shall be tested: internal capacity as independent variable, societal norms as intervening variable, and sphere of influence as dependent variable. The data shall be gathered from the clients of different public accountancy firms through survey, interview, and focused group discussion. Respondents shall be grouped according to the firm size and geographical location. Responses of these clients shall be taken as the collective state of condition of their public accountancy firms. The paper concludes that the state of condition, roles, and contributions of the public accountancy firms be documented through a scientific research that could be a source of knowledge and a basis for innovation in the profession and organizational growth of the individual auditing firms. Results can also be used in setting technical standards and regulatory pronouncements.

Keywords: Accountancy, Public Accountancy Practices, social institution, descriptive design (document analysis)

Suggested Citation:

Mendoza, Rufo Rosales, Framework for Analyzing Public Accountancy Practice as a Social Institution (January 31, 2014). International Journal of Business and Management (International Association of Multidisciplinary Research), 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2516858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
P Anderson
Crossref
Characteristics of an Institution. Retrieved on September 30 Posted: 2013
G H Axinn
Crossref
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Posted: 1971
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
841
RANK
601,250
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies