Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Continuing Professional Development in Public Accountancy Practice: The Philippine Experience

South East Asia Journal of Contemporary Business, Economics and Law, 2(1), 2013

14 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2014

Rufo R. Mendoza

Asian Institute of Management

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

Public accountancy practice in the Philippines has an accreditation process that requires Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) to undergo Continuing Professional Development (CPD) as a means to maintain competence in their professional practice. However, despite the mandate and the campaign to disseminate the CPD requirements, a number of CPAs still find it hard to comply. This motivated the researcher to look into the current situations and practices in fulfilling the CPD requirements. Through a survey of 187 practicing CPAs, interviews, and focused group discussion, the study identified the factors that enable or encourage CPAs to engage in CPD activities as well as the barriers in pursuing such activities. It also confirmed the types of CPD activities which the CPAs have attended, their primary providers, and the decision-making and funding of CPD activities. Finally, it looked into the value of CPD activities and the quality of programs and providers. The study tested the hypothesis that is no significant difference on the responses when the respondents are grouped according to the demographic profile, using T-Test to compare the responses of two groups of respondents and F-Test for more than two groups. The findings of the study are useful in improving the policies and programs related to CPD in the Accountancy profession. The recommendations are meant to enhance the capacity of the training service providers in developing programs that are efficient, effective, and beneficial.

Keywords: continuing professional development, accountancy practice accreditation, training service provider

Suggested Citation:

Mendoza, Rufo Rosales, Continuing Professional Development in Public Accountancy Practice: The Philippine Experience (June 1, 2013). South East Asia Journal of Contemporary Business, Economics and Law, 2(1), 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2516865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Creative Skillset
The importance of continuing professional development Posted: 2012
E A Hakim
The importance of continuing professional development
South Sudan Medical Journal. Retrieved from Posted: 2008
Statement 1.500. Continuing professional development Posted: 2012
R R Mendoza
Enablers and barriers in continuing professional development of practicing CPAs in the Philippines. Glimpses: The Philippine accountancy profession at a glance. Manila: Philippines International Federation of Accountants. (2010) Handbook of international education pronouncements
Professional Regulation Commission Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,135
RANK
44,549
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies