Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Inversions - Background, Causes, and Policy Options

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2014-1017

34 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2014 Last revised: 11 Nov 2014

J. Richard (Dick) Harvey

Villanova University School of Law and Graduate Tax Program

Date Written: October 31, 2014

Abstract

Corporate inversions have been front page news during most of 2014. In addition to providing background on inversions, this presentation discusses why inversions are occurring and various policy options.

What is the primary driver of inversions? Contrary to many public reports, the 35% US corporate tax rate is not the cause. Rather, US MNCs have shifted so much income to tax havens that they have a liquidity issue (i.e., the lock-out effect). In addition, US MNCs may also be worried the SEC and their external auditors could start questioning their assumption that foreign earnings are indefinitely reinvested.

Treasury Notice 2014-52 puts some fingers in the proverbial dike, but the bottom line is that inversions are going to continue until the US modifies its tax system. US MNCs want a territorial system with minimal base erosion protections, while others would accept a territorial system with strong base erosion protections. Both options have major issues.

The ideal solution would be to attempt to equalize the tax burden of US MNCs, foreign MNCs, and domestic US businesses. This could be accomplished if the US viewed itself as a source country and based its tax on the volume of sales to US customers. Many US states have effectively adopted this approach because of the fierce tax competition among states.

Keywords: Inversions, Income Shifting, US Corporate Tax Rate, International Tax, Lock-Out Effect

Suggested Citation:

Harvey, J. Richard, Corporate Inversions - Background, Causes, and Policy Options (October 31, 2014). Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2014-1017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2517464 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2517464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
393
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,661
RANK
172,047
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies