Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Basel III Requirements: A Justification for the Role of Audits? (Jurisdictional Analyses)

Journal of Social Sciences (COES&RJ-JSS) ISSN (E): 2305-9249 ISSN (P): 2305-9494

12 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2014 Last revised: 7 Nov 2014

Marianne Ojo D Delaney PhD

American Accounting Association; Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD); Centre for Innovation and Sustainable Development (CISD)

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2014

Abstract

As well as consolidating on the existing literature on fair value accounting, by way of reference to jurisdictional analyses which include a focus on China, Japan, Brazil, and South Africa, this paper not only highlights why there is need for a re-think of the use of fair values as the primary basis for the implementation of IFRS, but also accentuates the links between systemic risk and information asymmetries - hence the justification for greater focus on information channels as well as disclosure and financial reporting requirements. Audits, which serve as vital signalling mechanisms in capital markets, have limited roles in many emerging economies than is the case with industrial nations. In contributing to the extant literature on the topic, this paper also aims to address the vital and crucial question relating to whether certain emerging economies are justified in their reluctance to fully embrace audits - based on cost-benefit considerations, as well as other inadequacies relating to fair value measurements. Furthermore, it will be highlighted that whilst audits may appear to have more limited roles in certain jurisdictions, there appears to be greater willingness to embrace Basel III requirements - and in particular, the Basel III leverage ratios in jurisdictions such as China. Ultimately the paper also aims to investigate whether there are any justifications or rationales for a jurisdiction's willingness and pace to adopt IFRS, Basel III requirements, in relation to the existing role assumed by audits in such jurisdictions.

Keywords: fair value accounting, Finance Theory, information asymmetries, risk, corporate governance, ownership structures, auditor, disclosure, principal, agent, regulation, moral hazard, IFRS, China, Japan, Brazil, and South Africa

Suggested Citation:

Ojo D Delaney PhD, Marianne, The Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Basel III Requirements: A Justification for the Role of Audits? (Jurisdictional Analyses) (October 1, 2014). Journal of Social Sciences (COES&RJ-JSS) ISSN (E): 2305-9249 ISSN (P): 2305-9494 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2518120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors
Crossref
J Gray , J Hamilton
Basel III Implementation: Is the Industry Running Out of Time
IFRS Application Around the World: Jurisdiction Profiles Posted: 2006
Urooj Khan
Does Fair Value Accounting Contribute to Systemic Risk in the Banking Industry?
Pages: 51 Posted: 15 Jan 2009 Last revised: 6 Dec 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R M Lastra , G Wood
The Crisis of 2007 -09: Nature, Causes and Reactions
Journal of International Economic Law , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 531 - 532
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
RANK
203,526
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies