Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How the SEC Helps Speedy Traders

Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 501

42 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2014 Last revised: 2 Dec 2014

Robert J. Jackson, Jr.

New York University School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Joshua Mitts

Columbia Law School

Date Written: November 6, 2014

Abstract

We show that the Securities and Exchange Commission’s system for disseminating market-moving information in securities filings gives some investors an advantage over others. We describe two systems — the SEC’s file transfer protocol (FTP) server and public dissemination service (PDS) — that give certain investors access to securities filings before the general public. While contemporaneous work on this issue is limited to insider filings, we show that both the FTP and PDS gaps are pervasive across all types of filings, including Form 8-K, which includes market-moving information such as corporate earnings. We show that FTP access gives investors a mean (median) 85 (11)-second lead time, and PDS gives investors a mean (median) 77 (10)-second lead time, before the filing is available on the SEC’s website.

We also provide evidence suggesting that investors had the opportunity to take advantage of this lead time to earn trading profits. In particular, we show that traders could earn economically and statistically significant returns by trading on either the FTP or PDS gaps. Moreover, even investors who waited as long as ninety seconds to execute trades on the FTP or PDS gaps could earn meaningful returns using this strategy. We also identify abnormal trading volume in the moments after PDS subscribers receive SEC filings.

Finally, our direct access to both FTP and PDS also allow us to document the changes to those systems that the SEC implemented after the public revelation of this issue in October 2014. We show that the SEC imposed a significant delay on the PDS service after the existence of the informational advantage was revealed. We also, however, show that, as of November 2014, PDS subscribers still receive some 37% of filings before the general public. We argue that lawmakers should consider reforms that would help the SEC develop a centralized information-dissemination system that is better suited for the high-speed dynamics of modern markets.

Keywords: securities law, high-frequency trading, information dissemination

Suggested Citation:

Jackson, Jr., Robert J. and Mitts, Joshua, How the SEC Helps Speedy Traders (November 6, 2014). Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 501, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520105 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2520105
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Andrew Ackerman , Scott Patterson , Ryan Tracy
Gap Narrows in Access to SEC Filings
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2014
Scott W. Bauguess , John W. Cooney , Kathleen Weiss Hanley
Investor Demand for Information in Newly Issued Securities
Pages: 52 Posted: 15 Jan 2014 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Eric B. Budish , Peter C. Cramton , John J. Shim
The High-Frequency Trading Arms Race: Frequent Batch Auctions as a Market Design Response
Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 14-03 Pages: 85 Posted: 30 Jan 2014 Last revised: 2 Mar 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William D Cohan
SEC Raises Barrier to Disclosure of Information. The New York Times Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
876
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,433
RANK
62,856
3 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies