Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Survey on the Polish Corporate Auditors’ Procedures and the Most Commonly Detected Irregularities as Measures of Preventing Creative Accounting

7 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2014

Joanna M. Wyrobek

Cracow University of Economics

Date Written: November 8, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of the paper was to investigate the effectiveness of external corporate auditors in detecting creative accounting in Poland. According to the survey results, auditors regularly identified such practices and introduced appropriate adjustments to the financial statements.

Keywords: audit, financial reporting, creative accounting

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Wyrobek, Joanna M., The Survey on the Polish Corporate Auditors’ Procedures and the Most Commonly Detected Irregularities as Measures of Preventing Creative Accounting (November 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520910 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2520910
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Oriol Amat , Catherine Gowthorpe
Creative Accounting: Nature, Incidence and Ethical Issues
UPF Working Paper No. 749 Pages: 19 Posted: 12 Jul 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Oriol Amat , Catherine Gowthorpe
Creative Accounting: Nature, Incidence and Ethical Issues
UPF Working Paper No. 749 Pages: 19 Posted: 12 Jul 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C R Beidleman
Income smoothing: the role of management
The Accounting Review , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 653 - 667 Posted: 1973-10
G Breton , R J Taffler
Creative accounting and investment analyst response
Accounting and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 98 , p. 81 - 92 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,253
RANK
580,215
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies