Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Updated Analysis of Enforcement Actions Against Engagement Quality Reviewers

Kraussman, M. and W. F. Messier, Jr. 2015. An updated analysis of enforcement actions against engagement quality reviewers. Current Issues in Auditing, Forthcoming.

22 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2014 Last revised: 7 May 2015

Mike Kraussman

University of Nevada, Las Vegas

William F. Messier, Jr.

NHH Norwegian School of Economics

Date Written: April 30, 2015

Abstract

Engagement quality review (EQR) is designed to be a quality control mechanism for improving the quality of audit engagements. This paper updates the findings of Messier, Kozloski and Kochetova-Kozloski (2010) on enforcement actions against engagement quality (EQ) reviewers, especially in light of the December 2009 implementation of the new standard on engagement quality review - Auditing Standard No. 7 (AS7). We identified 16 enforcement actions since 2009 that involve some type of sanction against an EQ reviewer. Only two cases involved a Big 4 firm. Thus, the vast majority of cases involved EQRs from smaller public accounting firms. Six cases occurred prior to the implementation of AS7, nine cases occurred after AS7 took effect, and one case involved violations both prior to and after AS7 implementation. All of the pre-AS7 cases involved sanctions resulting from an inadequate EQR. In contrast, all of the post-AS7 cases involved sanctions resulting from a failure to perform an EQR. Our review of these post-AS7 cases suggests that some small firms either were unable or unwilling to bring in qualified outside reviewers. Our findings provide important implications for practitioners, regulators, and researchers interested in engagement quality review and in improving the overall quality of audit engagements.

Keywords: Engagement quality review, SEC Enforcement Actions, PCAOB Disciplinary Proceedings, Due professional care, Professional skepticism

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Kraussman, Mike and Messier Jr, William F., An Updated Analysis of Enforcement Actions Against Engagement Quality Reviewers (April 30, 2015). Kraussman, M. and W. F. Messier, Jr. 2015. An updated analysis of enforcement actions against engagement quality reviewers. Current Issues in Auditing, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2521165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2521165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J F Boyle , D M Boyle , D R Hermanson , R W Houston
Quality Control Defects in Smaller Firms' PCAOB Inspection Reports
The CPA Journal , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 34 - 39 Posted: 2013
K Epps , W F Messier
Engagement quality reviews: A comparison of audit firm practices
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 181 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D L Goelzer
PCAOB Update: A Year Three Progress report and
Speech before the Colorado Society of CPAs 2005 SEC Conference Posted: 2005-04-12
D R Hermanson , R W Houston
Quality control defects revealed in smaller firms' PCAOB inspection reports
The CPA Journal , volume 78 , issue 12 , p. 36 - 39 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,933
RANK
580,215
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Opportunities for Task-Level Research Within the Audit Process

By William F. Messier, Jr.

A Summary of Research on External Auditor Reliance on the Internal Audit Function

By Charles Bame-aldred, Duane M. Brandon, ...

The Effects of Serving Two Masters and Using the Internal Audit Function as a Management Training Ground on Internal Auditors' Objectivity

By Florian Hoos, William F. Messier, Jr., ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies