Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Actuarial Smoothing of Retirement Payouts in Participating Life Annuities

Pension Research Council WP 2014-02

45 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2014

Raimond Maurer

Goethe University Frankfurt - Finance Department

Olivia S. Mitchell

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School, Pension Research Council; University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Ralph Rogalla

St. John's University - Tobin College of Business - School of Risk Management, Insurance, and Actuarial Science; Goethe University Frankfurt - Department of Finance

Ivonne Siegelin

Goethe University Frankfurt

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 1, 2014

Abstract

Life insurers use accounting and actuarial techniques to smooth reporting of firm assets and liabilities, seeking to transfer surpluses in good years to cover benefit payouts in bad year. Yet these techniques have been criticized as they make it difficult to assess insurers' true financial status. We develop stylized and realistically-calibrated models of participating lifetime annuities, an insurance product that pays retirees guaranteed lifelong benefits along with variable non-guaranteed surplus. Our goal is to illustrate how accounting and actuarial techniques for this product shape policyholder wellbeing as well as insurer profitability and stability. We show that smoothing adds value to both the annuitant and the insurer, so curtailing smoothing could undermine the market for long-term retirement payout products.

Suggested Citation:

Maurer, Raimond and Mitchell, Olivia S. and Rogalla, Ralph and Rogalla, Ralph and Siegelin, Ivonne, Accounting and Actuarial Smoothing of Retirement Payouts in Participating Life Annuities (February 1, 2014). Pension Research Council WP 2014-02, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2522963 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2522963
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to Market Accounting and Liquidity Pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Beyer , D A Cohen , T Z Lys , B R Walther
The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 296 - 343 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Bleck , X Liu
Market Transparency and the Accounting Regime
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 229 - 256 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J R Brown , O S Mitchell , J M Poterba , M J Warshawsky
The Role of Annuity Markets in Financing Retirement Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
RANK
487,221
6 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies