Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why AMT and No AMxT? A Comment on Hines and Logue

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-024

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 436

6 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2014 Last revised: 10 Dec 2014

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: November 14, 2014

Abstract

In "Understanding the AMT, and Its Unadopted Sibling, the AMxT." J. Legal Analysis (Advance Access: October 8, 2014), Jim Hines and Kyle Logue propose an interesting new theory about why the US has an Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The function of the AMT, they propose, is to enable Congress to adopt a progressive rate schedule and to accommodate heterogeneous preferences for tax expenditures. Hines and Logue write that "By taxing a broad definition of income, the AMT makes it possible to have a tax system that both encourages certain activities with generous tax preferences and maintains a semblance of distributional equity." This rationale, they suggest, also favors the adoption of an Alternative Maximum Tax (AmXT), which would cap tax liabilities of individuals with very few preference items and thereby afford Congress greater flexibility in designing the income tax. This analysis is certainly novel, since most of the existing tax literature is opposed to the AMT. The problem, however, is that Hines and Logue have no explanation why Congress adopted the AMT but not the AMxT. When a novel theory explains part but not all of the observed phenomena, it behooves us to take another look at the theory. The following suggests another explanation for the AMT, which I believe is more consistent with Congress' intent. It also suggests a reason to retain the AMT even if Congress does not adopt the AMxT.

Keywords: AMT, tax reform

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Why AMT and No AMxT? A Comment on Hines and Logue (November 14, 2014). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 14-024, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 436, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2524604 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2524604
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Reuven S Avi-Yonah , Carbon Tax
Health Care Tax, Bank Tax, and Other Regulatory Taxes
Beyond Economic Efficiency in United States Tax Law , volume 183 Posted: 2013
Linda M Beale
Congress Fiddles While Middle America Burns: Amending the AMT (and Regular Tax). Florida Tax Review , volume 6 Posted: 2004
Leonard E. Burman , William G. Gale , Jeff Rohaly , Benjamin H. Harris
The Individual Amt: Problems and Potential Solutions
Tax Policy Center Discussion Paper No. 5 Pages: 69 Posted: 19 Sep 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Leonard E. Burman , William G. Gale , Jeffrey Rohaly , Benjamin H. Harris
The Individual AMT: Problems and Potential Solutions
Pages: 78 Posted: 19 Jul 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,309
RANK
472,944
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies