Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Buffett-Gates Giving Pledge Requires Limitation of the Estate Tax Charitable Deduction

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 16, No. 7, 2014

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 443

36 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2014 Last revised: 3 Dec 2014

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: November 15, 2014

Abstract

The Buffett-Gates Giving Pledge, under which wealthy individuals promise to leave a majority of their assets to charity, is an admirable effort to encourage philanthropy. However, the Pledge requires us to confront the paradox that the federal estate tax charitable deduction is unlimited while the federal income tax charitable deduction is capped. If a Giving Pledger leaves his wealth to charity, the federal fisc loses significant revenue since the Pledger thereby avoids federal estate taxation as charitable bequests are deductible without limit for federal estate tax purposes. Despite its laudable qualities, the Giving Pledge is a systematic (albeit inadvertent) threat to the estate tax base.

The Giving Pledge requires the amendment of the federal estate tax to restrict an estate’s charitable deduction to a percentage of the estate, just as the income tax charitable deduction is limited to a percentage of the taxpayer’s income. In this fashion, the sensible compromise embedded in the income tax charitable deduction would be carried over to the federal estate tax to simultaneously encourage charitable giving while ensuring that all large estates pay some federal estate tax.

The Giving Pledge need not be the death knell of the estate tax. It should instead be the catalyst to reform the tax by limiting the estate tax charitable deduction.

Keywords: Warren Buffett, Bill Gates, Giving Pledge, estate tax, income tax, charitable deduction

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., Why the Buffett-Gates Giving Pledge Requires Limitation of the Estate Tax Charitable Deduction (November 15, 2014). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 16, No. 7, 2014, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 443, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2524765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Id
Crossref
William Alden
Buffett Gives $2 Billion to Gates Foundation
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2013-07-08
Howard G See , Forty Buffett , Chances
FINDING HOPE IN A HUNGRY WORLD Posted: 2013
E G See , Andrea Peyser
It's Chelsea Clinton's time Posted: 2013-11-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,870
RANK
399,022
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies