Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Contribution of Skandia Navigator in Intangibles Measurements

10 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2014

Marsel Sulanjaku

University of Aleksander, Xhuvani

Date Written: November 19, 2014

Abstract

The differences between the market and book value, the inadequacy of traditional accounting reporting in performance measurement and management, indicates a not recognized and not reported asset in the balance sheet, the intangible assets. As still there is not a commonly agreed consensus regarding the measurement and reporting of intangible assets by the accounting standards, on the other side the management accounting has made much progress in intangibles measurement for internal reporting by implementing various models for performance measurement using strategic analysis techniques. One of these models, which attempt to measure company performance and intangible asset value, is Skandia Navigator. The purpose of this research paper is to analyze the Skandia Navigator ability in measuring intangible assets and company performance and its implementation and adoption possibilities by Albanian companies. The key findings of the research paper is that the intangible assets models have began to be adopted partially by the Albanian decision makers and by additional training and research in the intangible measurement full implementation of similar models can be successfully adopted. The methodology used in the preparation of this paper will be that of the utilizing the foreign and national literature, and the utilization of interviews with selected business management in Albania interested in intangible asset management and other related parties to fulfill the questions raised by this research.

Keywords: Skandia Navigator, intangible assets, intellectual property, intangibles measurement, performance indicators.

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sulanjaku, Marsel, The Contribution of Skandia Navigator in Intangibles Measurements (November 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2527891 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2527891
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Daniel Andreissen
Making sense of Intellectual Capital Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Roy
Managing intellectual capital: the work with the Navigator in the Skandia Group
Journal of Human Resource Costing and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 48 - 69 Posted: 1999
Crossref
C Ax , T Bjørnenak
Bundling and diffusion of management accounting innovations -the case of the Balanced Scorecard in Sweden
Management Accounting Research , volume 16 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2005
Crossref
R Petty , J Guthrie
Intellectual capital literature review: measurement, reporting and management
Journal of Intellectual Capital , volume 1 Posted: 2000-10
Load more
1 Citations
Güngör KARACA , Akın MARŞAP
ENTELEKTÜEL SERMAYE VE YENİLİKÇİLİĞİN İŞLETME PERFORMANSINA ETKİSİ
Adıyaman Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi , issue 39 , p. 457 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
853
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,260
RANK
65,287
1 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies