Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Research Note on Understandability, Readability and Translatability of IFRS

13 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2014

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Huw Rhys

University of Wales, Aberystwyth - School of Management and Business

Date Written: November 19, 2014

Abstract

“Translations – of deep resonances and felt connections – are difficult, if not impossible, to make; one can learn another language, but acquiring all of the cultural accoutrements that accompany language is another story” (Bullaro, 2005).

It is the objective of this study to review the nexus between Understandability, Translatability and Readability. Where communication serves specific purposes, for example in professions, highly specialized ‘dialects’ or varieties of language exist, referred to as 'languages for specific purposes.'

Understandability is culturally bound and is not the same as translatability, although both depend on the expertise of the reader. Understandability of IFRS requires expert accounting knowledge, not only because the subject matter is accounting, but because accounting is a 'language for specific purposes'. Certainty that comes from the conservatism of such a specialized jargon enhances understandability for experts and specialists.

There is also much research on readability of annual reports produced from the application of IFRS; but a key fundamental characteristic of the IFRS canon is understandability, not readability (to the disappointment of some non-expert users of the IFRS). Many such studies undertake analysis using some type of readability index; this is, most often, based on differential loadings applied to certain aspects of the text, aspects which could increase or decrease syntactical complexity; but the characteristics of understandability differ from any such readability measures.

There is a particular scope for misunderstandings (and consequently a lack of understandability) where a confluence between professional bodies is required during the development of a sector-specific standard.

This review of the characteristics of understandability, readability and translatability clarifies that there is a balance between these three characteristics of written IFRS text. Such a balance need to reviewed and considered without any lessening of the effectiveness of new standards to improve and effectively regulate financial reporting, especially as the new members of the Boards and Technical teams at the IASB are introduced to the mission of the IASB.

Keywords: Understandability, Readability, Translatability, IFRS

JEL Classification: M40, J44

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Rhys, Huw, A Research Note on Understandability, Readability and Translatability of IFRS (November 19, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2528118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2528118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A H Adelberg
A Methodology for Measuring the Understandability of Financial Report Messages
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 565 - 92 Posted: 1979
Crossref
A H Adelberg
The accounting syntactic complexity formula: A new instrument for predicting the readability of selected accounting communications
Accounting and Business Research , volume 13 , p. 163 - 175 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A H Adelberg , G E Farrelly
Measuring the Meaning of Financial Statement Terminology: A Psycholinguistics Approach
Accounting & Finance , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 61 Posted: 1989
Crossref
A H Adelberg , J R Razek
The Cloze procedure: A methodology for determining the understandability of accounting textbooks
The Accounting Review , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 109 - 122 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
420
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,520
RANK
159,412
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies