Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Gratuitous Services Gone Out of 'Control'

University of Memphis Law Review, Vol. 45, No. 115, 2014

33 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2014

Allen Madison

University of South Dakota Law School

Date Written: November 23, 2014

Abstract

How does the IRS’s ruling that both parties to an exchange of services are subject to income tax apply in the dating context? When meeting, dating, living together, or potentially raising a child together, single people provide services for each other. Most are unaware that potential tax liability lurks behind their performance and receipt of services. This article proposes a framework for determining when a service is gratuitous and thus subject to income tax and then applies that framework to the four potential phases of singlehood. When a service received by an individual has value and occurs subject to the recipient’s control, it is taxable. On the other hand, if either value or control is absent, like when a single-member audience hears a spontaneous serenade by a suitor with an average voice, the recipient is not subject to tax. The serenade had no objective value, and the audience had no opportunity to control the timing or method of the performance. The lack of value for the love interest or control by the love interest makes the receipt of the service gratuitous and, therefore, not subject to tax. In the context of the four phases of singlehood, most services performed, like a serenade, lack one of these two elements.

Keywords: tax, taxation, services, gratuitous, imputed income, gross income, dating, barter exchange, exchange, definition of income

JEL Classification: A19, A2, B1, B15, B20, B29, B3, B4, E21, H20, H24, H30, H31, K34

Suggested Citation:

Madison, Allen, The Taxation of Gratuitous Services Gone Out of 'Control' (November 23, 2014). University of Memphis Law Review, Vol. 45, No. 115, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2529801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
See Kahn
, volume 1 , p. 693 - 94
Id
Internal See , Serv
PUBLICATION 525 TAXABLE AND NONTAXABLE INCOME 45 (2013) (listing examples of taxable exchanges of services involving professionals)
See RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF CONTRACTS § , volume 21 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,073
RANK
349,147
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies