Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Oversight: Evolving Expectations for Boards

The Conference Board's Director Notes, No. DN-V6N1, January 2014

15 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2014

Parveen P. Gupta

Lehigh University - Department of Accounting

Tim Leech

Risk Oversight Solutions

Date Written: January 30, 2014

Abstract

This report discusses evolving expectations for board oversight of management's risk appetite and tolerance and the challenges boards face in meeting them. It also recommends steps to implement a board-driven, objective-centric approach to risk governance.

Keywords: Board Risk Oversight, Risk Governance

JEL Classification: D81, K22

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Parveen P. and Leech, Tim, Risk Oversight: Evolving Expectations for Boards (January 30, 2014). The Conference Board's Director Notes, No. DN-V6N1, January 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532215
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
For the purposes of this report, we assume that board oversight of management's risk appetite and tolerance requires, by extension
and Risk Management Lessons from the Global Banking Crisis of 2008, Senior Supervisors Group
See Observations on Risk Management Practices during the Recent Market Turbulence, Senior Supervisors Group , volume 5 Posted: 2008-03-06
The aggregate level and types of risk a firm is willing to assume within its risk capacity to achieve its strategic objectives and business plan
the Financial Stability Board , volume 4 Posted: 2009-10
Matteo Tonello
The Role of the Board in Turbulent Times: Overseeing Risk Management and Executive Compensation
Pages: 9 Posted: 9 Jan 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
1 Citations
Yves Gendron , Anna Samsonova-Taddei , Henri Guénin
Making Sense of Risk Management as a (Dis)comfort-Inducing Practice
Gendron, Y., Samsonova-Taddei, A, and Guénin, H., Making sense of risk management as a (dis)comfort-inducing practice. Behavioral Research in Accounting, (Forthcoming)., · 50 Pages · Posted: 20 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 196
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,671
RANK
454,090
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies