Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Expectation Gap: Fraud Detection and Other Factors

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 1, Issue 1, 2014

24 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2014 Last revised: 14 Feb 2019

Ramon Saladrigues

University of Lleida

Marta Grañó

ESADE Business School

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

Financial information is an essential element in our society and in our economic system, as it plays a decisive role in the relationship between the various social agents. Therefore, this financial information must have a high level of quality, transparency and credibility.

The expectation gap is the difference between the responsibility that auditors believe they have in developing their professional activity, and that which the users of the financial information attribute to them. Numerous analysed studies confirm that the audit expectation gap exists.

Among the profusion of possible causes, the studies coincide in highlighting fraud detection, independence, erroneous expectations, nature of the audit process and the “going concern” analysis.

Once the main factors have been presented, the article takes an in-depth look at one of these factors: the role of the auditor when fraud is detected.

Keywords: Expectation gap, Audit, Fraud detection, Financial information.

Suggested Citation:

Saladrigues, Ramon and Grañó, Marta, Audit Expectation Gap: Fraud Detection and Other Factors (August 1, 2014). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 1, Issue 1, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2532494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
P Alleyne , M Howard
An Exploratory Study of Auditor's Responsibility for Fraud Detection in Barbados
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 20 , p. 254 - 303 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C D Baron , D A Johson , D G Seafors , C H Smith
Uncovering corporate irregularities: are we closing the expectation gap?
Journal of Accountancy , volume 144 , p. 243 - 250 Posted: 1977-10
A Cameron
Do Chartered Accountants Live Up to Small Business Expectations
Accountants' Journal , volume 72 , p. 76 - 78 Posted: 1993
R A Chandler , J R Edwards , M Anderson
Changing Perceptions of the Role of the Company Auditor
Accounting and Business Research , volume 23 , p. 443 - 459 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,557
RANK
36,009
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies