Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance and Presence of Professional Valuers In Financial Reporting

FINIZ Singidunum University International Scientic Conference 2014, Belgrade, Serbia

3 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2014

Danijela Ilic

National Association of Valuers of Serbia

Vule Mizdrakovic

Singidunum University

Date Written: December 5, 2014

Abstract

In this paper, we have emphasized the importance that the property valuation by professional valuers may have in the modern business, primarily in the financial reporting process. The introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards in the Republic of Serbia and the frequent use of fair value method for the valuation have opened the opportunity for increased use of professional valuation services. The development of the professional valuers’ profession is time consuming, but for the economy of a country is a very important process. Currently, in the Republic of Serbia, valuation of real property is conducted by court experts. However, very small number of them registered their specialty in the field of property valuations at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Also, very few of them have reported the evidence of professional development. In order to gain insight into the frequency and functionality of professional valuers’ use for financial reporting purposes, we have conducted a modest survey in the largest cities of the Republic of Serbia and presented the results in this paper.

Keywords: assets valuation, fair value, professional valuers

Suggested Citation:

Ilic, Danijela and Mizdrakovic, Vule, The Importance and Presence of Professional Valuers In Financial Reporting (December 5, 2014). FINIZ Singidunum University International Scientic Conference 2014, Belgrade, Serbia, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2535791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
E Strand , D Browen , &amp; T Lesicka
Real Estate Valuations
North Western Financial Review , volume 196 , issue 17 , p. 14 - 15 Posted: 2011
W Kinnard
Th e Approaching Crisis in Appraisal Education
Th e Appraisal Journal , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 166 - 174 Posted: 1968
A Woodruff
Valuation Education for Valuers-Assessors and Appraisers
Th e Appraisal Journal , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 424 - 438 Posted: 1970
Republike Narodna Skupština , Srbije
Zakon o porezima na imovinu Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,354
RANK
427,404
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies