Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Oversight Role of Regulators: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters in the IPO Process

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2015 Last revised: 17 Jul 2018

Bing Li

City University of Hong Kong (CityU)

Zhenbin Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

This study investigates how regulatory oversight affects the price formation of initial public offerings (IPOs). We provide evidence on the oversight role of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by examining the effects of comment letters issued by the SEC in the process through which companies are initially listed. We find that IPO issuers reduce their offer price if they receive comment letters. The reduction in price from the IPO filing date to the final issue date is greater when the IPO firm has more correspondence with the SEC. The pricing impact of SEC comment letters is more pronounced for IPO issuers with greater hyping incentives. Moreover, we find that IPO firms that receive more comment letters have similar levels of underpricing and outperform over the long run after the issue date, compared with IPOs with fewer comment letters.

Keywords: SEC comment letters, disclosure, information asymmetry, hyping, price formation

JEL Classification: M41, K22, G38

Suggested Citation:

Li, Bing and Liu, Zhenbin, The Oversight Role of Regulators: Evidence from SEC Comment Letters in the IPO Process (May 1, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2536893 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2536893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J Aharony , C J Lin , M P Loeb
Initial public offerings, accounting choices, and earnings management
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 61 - 81 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality at initial public offerings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
L M Benveniste , A Ljungqvist , W J Wilhelm , Yu , X
Evidence of information spillovers in the production of investment banking services
The Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 577 - 608 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Bhattacharya , G Chiesa
Proprietary information, financial intermediation, and research incentives
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 4 , p. 328 - 57 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,204
RANK
225,151
21 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies