Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Could Complying China's Secrecy Laws Be an Excuse for Auditors Not to Provide Their Working Papers of Auditing Chinese Companies? Recent Cases in Hong Kong and the United States

King's Law Journal, 2015, 26, 1, 99-128

Posted: 13 Dec 2014 Last revised: 29 Dec 2017

Raymond Siu Yeung Chan

Hong Kong Baptist University

Kong Shan Ho

City University of Hong Kong (CityU) - School of Law; Kingston University, Department of Law; Manchester Metropolitan University - School of Law

Date Written: December 10, 2014

Abstract

In recent years, many Chinese companies have been listed on overseas stock exchanges to solicit funding from international investors. Auditors of these companies are required to serve as an independent gatekeeper in providing assurance for the integrity and accuracy of the financial reports of these companies. Yet, when overseas regulators commenced investigations on the financial irregularities of these companies, their auditors refused to produce the relevant audit working papers, citing China’s secrecy laws as an excuse for preventing them from doing so. The paper examines the recent court cases in both Hong Kong and the United States in relation to the proceedings initiated by regulators against those auditors. It also compares the similarities and differences of these court cases and the auditor regulatory regimes in these two jurisdictions. It concludes that the issues faced with the two jurisdictions are different. Solutions to the problems encountered in the auditor regulatory regimes should take these differences into consideration.

Keywords: State Secrecy Law, Auditor, Securities Regulation, Stock Exchange, Hong Kong, United States

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Raymond Siu Yeung and Ho, Kong Shan, Could Complying China's Secrecy Laws Be an Excuse for Auditors Not to Provide Their Working Papers of Auditing Chinese Companies? Recent Cases in Hong Kong and the United States (December 10, 2014). King's Law Journal, 2015, 26, 1, 99-128 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2536643
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies