Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Implementing Shari’ah Auditing as a Separate Discipline in Bangladeshi Islamic Banks

18 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2014

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

Almost all the commercial banks in Bangladesh are operating Islamic banking windows throughout the country to attract Muslims (90% of the population). To ensure shariah compliance, Islamic banks in Bangladesh currently use “Internal Shariah Review” which is basically the SSC’s supervision, monitoring and controlling ‘during’ and ‘after’ the banks’ operation. However, It does not cover a thorough and comprehensive audit to examine the transactions after executing the contracts. So, there lies a huge functional gap between shariah compliance and internal shariah review, which is obstructing Muslims from trusting these banks. The purpose of this research was to identify the feasibility of implementing shariah auditing in Bangladeshi Islami banks. This research tries to measure the respondents’ idea about establishing “Shari’ah Audit” as a discipline. It also investigates whether there should be a proper shariah audit side-by-side internal shariah review and how far Shariah audit would be worth implementing. For collecting primary data a survey questionnaire, with both ‘open-ended’ and ‘close-ended’ questions, was designed and distributed among the accounting academicians, audit practitioners and Shari’ah scholars in Bangladesh. A combination of quantitative and qualitative method was used to get the result. Frequency distribution method was used to examine the pattern of the respondents (Positivistic approach) and Hermeneutic approach was used to interpret the views of the respondents. The respondents had varying experience of awareness about shariah auditing. However, most of the respondents opined that shariah auditing should be a separate discipline and there should be a proper shariah audit side-by-side shariah review in the Islamic banks in Bangladesh. Almost all the respondents think that because of the involvement of huge transaction and monitoring costs, Islamic banks in Bangladesh are unwilling to carry out shariah audit instead of or along with shariah review.

Keywords: Shariah Review, Shariah audit, Theories of transaction and monitoring costs, Agency theory and Residual claimants theory

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md, Cost-Benefit Analysis of Implementing Shari’ah Auditing as a Separate Discipline in Bangladeshi Islamic Banks (December 15, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538590 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Shari'ah'Scholars' Audit'Prac11oners' Accoun1ng' Academicians' Overall' Yes
Crossref
Aaoifi
Accounting, Auditing and Governance Standards for Islamic Financial Institutions. Manama, Bahrain: Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Instutions Posted: 2010
R A Abdel-Karim
Accounting and Auditing Standards for Islamic Financial Institutions Posted: 1999
E R Adawiah
Shariah Framework for Shariah Compliance Review, Audit and Governance
Workshop on Shariah Review, Audit and Governance for Islamic Financial Institutions Posted: 2007
Load more
10 Citations
Md. Kausar Alam , Mosab I. Tabash , Md. Farjin Hassan , Nihad Hossain , Md. Akib Javed
Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing in Global Financial Systems
, p. 261 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Md. Kausar Alam , Muhammad Shahin Miah
Independence and effectiveness of Shariah supervisory board of Islamic banks: evidence from an emerging economy
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 173 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Md. Kausar Alam , Muhammad Shahin Miah , Md. Naim Siddiquii , Mohammad Imtiaz Hossain
The influences of board of directors and management in Shariah governance guidelines of the Islamic banks in Bangladesh
Journal of Islamic Accounting and Business Research , volume 11 , issue 9 , p. 1633 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Mosab I. Tabash , Md. Kausar Alam , Md. Mizanur Rahman
Ethical legitimacy of Islamic banks and Shariah governance: Evidence from Bangladesh
Journal of Public Affairs Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
307
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
225,977
10 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies