Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Evidence From Big-4-Affiliated Audit Firms in Bangladesh

Asian Journal of Business Studies, 6(2):01-07, September 2017

7 Pages Posted: 22 Dec 2014 Last revised: 21 Mar 2019

Jahidur Md Rahman

Wenzhou-Kean University

Date Written: September 2, 2017

Abstract

This paper attempts to investigate the effects of the prohibition of certain non-audit services on the independence of the auditor and based on personal in-depth interviews with the Big 4 auditing firms that are affiliated with local accounting firms in Bangladesh. The approach selected for this research is a qualitative one and has a descriptive and explanatory nature. From this research, it becomes evident that independence has always been a central issue in auditing. All the respondents agreed that the prohibition of non-audit services increase the appearance that the auditing firms are independent. The findings of this paper present an apparent picture of the field of auditing in Bangladesh. It will also guide the researchers for future investigations.

Keywords: Prohibition of non-audit services, Audit services, Non-audit services and Independence of the auditor

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Jahidur Md, Non-Audit Services and Auditor Independence: Evidence From Big-4-Affiliated Audit Firms in Bangladesh (September 2, 2017). Asian Journal of Business Studies, 6(2):01-07, September 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2539516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Abdel Khalik , A R
The jointers of audit fees and demand for mas: A self selection analysis
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 6 Posted: 1990
R Antle
Auditor independence , volume 22 Posted: 1984
Crossref
B Arruanda
The provision of non-audit services by auditors: Let the market evolve and decide international
Review of Law and Economics , volume 19 Posted: 1999
Crossref
S Asthanna , S Balsam , S Kim
The effect of Enron, Andersen, and Sarbanes-Oxley on the US market for audit services , volume 22 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,074
RANK
464,622
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies