Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Chinese Investment in Australian Resources: Can the Legal Debt/Equity Distinction Still Create Windfalls and Impediments?

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

48 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Ian Murray

The University of Western Australia Law School

Nolan Sharkey

University of Western Australia - Faculty of Law

Date Written: October 11, 2014

Abstract

Chinese direct investment into Australia is significant due to its scale and to the relatively unique circumstance of a developed country net beneficiary and developing country net provider, of direct investment. The Australian resources sector is the main target of such investment and it is in this context that certain ‘tracking note’ hybrid instruments offer marked Australian tax benefits in relation to the stamp duties or capital gains tax (‘CGT’) that might otherwise apply to acquisitions and disposals of ordinary shares. The issue is that while the tracking notes are, in substance, equity investments and bear many similarities to ordinary shares, they are not legal form shares and the tax benefits arise because various tax provisions still turn on legal form. Further, the tax advantages can be preserved by the use of interposed holding companies (for instance, in Hong Kong or Singapore) to route the Chinese investment.

However, the use of tracking notes creates non-tax inefficiencies for the issuer and holder, increases compliance costs and uncertainty and impacts on the integrity of the Australian stamp duties and CGT provisions. Ultimately they amply demonstrate the difficulty inherent in applying established international taxation concepts to innovative instruments when different countries’ laws and double tax agreements are involved.

Suggested Citation:

Murray, Ian and Sharkey, Nolan, Chinese Investment in Australian Resources: Can the Legal Debt/Equity Distinction Still Create Windfalls and Impediments? (October 11, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539935
Purchase - $45
55 References
On the basis that they are not 'securities': see, eg, Board of Taxation, Review of the Debt and Equity Tax Rules (Discussion Paper Posted: 2014-03
Income tax: traditional securities, TR 96/14
ATO Posted: 2008-07-30
ITAA36 ss 26BB(1), 70B(1) and 159GP
Crossref
Income tax: traditional securities, TR 96/14
ATO , volume 10 , p. 30 - 1269 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies