Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation and Surveillance: An Agenda

Yale Journal of Law & Technology, 2015, Forthcoming

University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2014-34

49 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014 Last revised: 27 Oct 2015

Michael Hatfield

University of Washington - School of Law; University of Washington - UW Law

Date Written: December 17, 2014

Abstract

Among government agencies, the IRS likely has the surest legal claim to the most information about the most Americans:their hobbies, religious affiliations, reading activities, travel, and medical information are all potentially tax relevant. Privacy scholars have studied the arrival of Big Data, the internet-of-things, and the cooperation of private companies with the government in surveillance, but neither privacy nor tax scholars have considered how these technological advances should impact the U.S. tax system. As government agencies and private companies increasingly pursue what has been described as the “growing gush of data,” the use of these technologies in tax administration will become increasingly important to consider. This Article provides an agenda of items for discussion, debate, and research related to the development, implementation, and effects of a surveillance-facilitated tax system.

Keywords: tax, surveillance, privacy, big data, internet of things

JEL Classification: K10, K34, K42, H20, H21, H24, H26, H29

Suggested Citation:

Hatfield, Michael W. and Hatfield, Michael W., Taxation and Surveillance: An Agenda (December 17, 2014). Yale Journal of Law & Technology, 2015, Forthcoming, University of Washington School of Law Research Paper No. 2014-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2539835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Solove
Id
Cohen
Posted: 1906
Julie E Cohen
Examined Lives: Informational Privacy and the Subject as Object Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,338
RANK
146,022
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies