Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
China's Enterprise Income Tax System: Policy Objectives and Key Design Features

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

18 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Antony Ting

University of Sydney

Xiliang Ge

Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics (ZUFE)

Date Written: October 21, 2014

Abstract

The increasing importance of China to Australian businesses dictates the need to have a good understanding of the Chinese corporate tax system. Due to the different economic and legal environment, some provisions of the EIT Law may come as a surprise to foreign observers. This is so despite that the Chinese tax system has become more sophisticated and its government in general has strived to align its tax policies with international norms in recent years.

The aim of this paper is to identify and analyse three key policy objectives of the EIT Law – namely, neutrality, competitiveness and anti-avoidance – which provide the framework for a better understanding of the regime. These policy objectives have shaped to a large extent the EIT Law in China. This paper critically evaluates how these three policy objectives were achieved through the design of key features and provisions of the EIT Law. The analysis also serves to highlight some interesting differences with their Australian counterparts wherever appropriate.

Suggested Citation:

Ting, Antony and Ge, Xiliang, China's Enterprise Income Tax System: Policy Objectives and Key Design Features (October 21, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539940
Purchase - $45
20 References
Jin
, volume 16
Crossref
Eit Law
Article 3
Eit Law
Article 2
Article 4
EIT Regulations
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,098
RANK
880,951
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies