Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Uncertainty and Possibilities in Taxation of Australian Investment in China: Profit Distributions and Payments to Group Members

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

40 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Nolan Sharkey

University of Western Australia - Faculty of Law

Dongmei Qiu

Xiamen University

Date Written: September 29, 2014

Abstract

This paper considers the Australian and Chinese taxation of Australian investment into China with a focus on profit distributions and inter-group transactions. In doing this it identifies that there is significant uncertainty in relation to taxation outcomes in the area and that this would be expected to cause major compliance costs. The uncertainty can be understood at two levels. First it is the product of Australian tax complexity brought about by an extensive law that results in unanticipated outcomes when it is not carefully reviewed in relation to multiple taxpayer levels and over time. Second, it is the product of a Chinese law so lacking in detailed rules of application and reliable ancillary information that it is difficult to know how it applies to numerous transactions. The combination of these two levels of complexity mean(s) that a failure to engage in very detailed consideration of the law will result in unexpected and highly undesirable taxation outcomes such as double taxation. The expense associated with the necessary consideration and planning would be expected to constitute a major obstacle to investment by many Australian investors into China. At the same time the analysis shows that when significant planning is undertaken, opportunities can arise to minimize tax arguably below that which would be expected by legislators. Finally, the analysis indicates that it is very difficult to ascertain exactly what the ‘correct’ amount of tax is for Australian investment into China. The context necessitates complex planning for a reasonable outcome yet complex planning can result in the payment of minimal taxation. It is difficult to see this as efficient or equitable.

Suggested Citation:

Sharkey, Nolan and Qiu, Dongmei, Uncertainty and Possibilities in Taxation of Australian Investment in China: Profit Distributions and Payments to Group Members (September 29, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539917
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,314
RANK
697,815
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies