Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Development of Transfer Pricing in China

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

30 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2014

Michelle Markham

Bond University - School of Law

Yixin Liao

Xiamen University and Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Date Written: September 2, 2014

Abstract

As a developing country, China is a relative late-comer in the global transfer pricing arena. While the Chinese tax authority, the State Administration of Taxation (SAT)1 has been adept at leveraging the international tax experience of other countries, from the 1980s onwards China began to establish her own unique transfer pricing system.

This article will examine key transfer pricing developments in China, looking at tax policy and practice in light of the increasing sophistication of her transfer pricing rules and regulations and enhanced enforcement practices. It will highlight features of the origin and development of China’s transfer pricing system that are specific to China, including its genesis from the local pilot programs and the local administrative regulations of the Shenzhen City government, the fact that most of China’s detailed transfer pricing rules take the form of departmental tax documents which provide the SAT with a large amount of discretion in the implementation of these rules, and the relatively small role that judicial review plays in the regulation of transfer pricing.

Suggested Citation:

Markham, Michelle and Liao, Yixin, The Development of Transfer Pricing in China (September 2, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539399
Purchase - $45
5 References
Ibid
, volume 2
Crossref
Ibid
Chart 5-1 Number of APAs signed Posted: 2005
X Taishou
Research on Governance China's International Tax Avoidance China Market Press Posted: 2012
Chi
China" Transfer Pricing Forum Posted: 20126-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
RANK
692,613
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies