Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Importance of the Retail Payment System

75 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Hal S. Scott

Harvard Law School

Date Written: December 16, 2014

Abstract

This article explores the importance of an efficient retail payment system and develops an integrated framework for evaluation of the retail payment system by policy makers. It examines the costs and benefits of the various types of retail payment system, focusing on the seven desirable benefits of the retail payment system: (1) finality and reversibility; (2) universality (ability to use at point of sale and remotely); (3) recordkeeping; (4) liquidity (maximizing interest earning assets); (5) security and safety; (6) financial inclusion and access; and (7) fungibility and ease of use (seven benefits).

The article discusses the Coase Theorem, a proposition from transaction cost economics that provides a useful tool for analyzing transaction efficiency. Increased costs are not bad per se since parties are often willing to incur higher costs to achieve their desired results, e.g. higher costs for a more secure form of payment. Indeed, higher costs may often generate higher value to both parties to a transaction. What one wants to reduce are “friction” costs, costs that neither party wants to pay to achieve a desired result, e.g. higher costs produced by lack of information.

While each retail payment system provides certain advantages, e.g. cash for small transactions, overall the analysis suggests that debit and credit cards represent the most desirable payment system for achieving the seven benefits set forth above. This is supported by statistics that indicate that retail payments have increasingly moved toward card payments.

Note: Scott, Hal S., “The Importance of the Retail Payment System”, sponsored by MasterCard.

Keywords: Retail Payment Systems

Suggested Citation:

Scott, Hal S., The Importance of the Retail Payment System (December 16, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2539150
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
More specifically, vendors may be obligated to accept cash as the settlement of debt for obligations already incurred by the purchaser. However, in many jurisdictions, vendors are free to refuse to enter into a transaction in the first place where the vendor does not like the consumer's intended method of payment
E G See , Anna Tims , ; Money , Blog
Why Cash is No Longer King Posted: 2012-07-05
John Bagnall , David Bounie , Kim P Huynh , Anneke Kosse , Tobias Schmidt , Scott Schuh , Helmut Stix
Consumer Cash Usage: A Cross-Country Comparison with Payment Diary Survey Data 15 (ECB Working Paper No. 1685) available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=2436365. of non-cash payment is by card, a majority by debit card
with 11% by ACH and only 16%
Average Value of Payment Source: 2013 Federal Reserve Payments Study ACH (network)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,625
RANK
133,571
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies