Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expatriate Employees and Consultants Working in China

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014

24 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2014

Miranda Webster

University of Melbourne - Law School

Yue Guo

Zhongnan University of Economics and Law - The School of Public Finance and Taxation

Ann O'Connell

University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: September 2, 2014

Abstract

China’s demand for skilled workers, including from Australia, in their emerging economy is continuing. Australians working in China as employees or as consultants are likely to encounter many cultural but also legal differences, including different tax treatment of their remuneration.

Although the taxation of remuneration in China has some similarities with the Australian tax system, there are at least three differences that are worth noting. These differences relate to treatment of residency (referred to in China as ‘domicile rules’) which allow foreigners to pay Chinese tax only on Chinese-source income if the person is resident for less than 5 full years; the more favourable treatment of allowances and bonuses and the tendency to tax foreign workers more favourably than domestic workers.

This article considers those differences and notes the pressures that may mean that features of the Chinese personal tax system could change.

Suggested Citation:

Webster, Miranda and Guo, Yue and O'Connell, Ann, Expatriate Employees and Consultants Working in China (September 2, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 29, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539413
Purchase - $45
31 References
Income derived from personal services means income derived from designing, decoration, installation, drafting, chemical examination, testing, medical practice, law practice, accounting, consulting, lecturing, news reporting, broadcasting, translating, proof-reading, calligraphy and painting, sculpture, films, audio and video recording, performing, advertisement, exhibition, technical service, go-between service, brokerage, commissioned service and other personal services
Wolters Kluwer , China Deloitte , Master Tax , Guide
Posted: 2013
Crossref
Liu Zuo
Invest in China: Tax Law and Practice (LIU Tieying, trans Posted: 2008
) art 4; Wolters Kluwer and Deloitte, China Master Tax Guide
Invest in China: Tax Law and Practice , volume 21 Posted: 1996-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies