Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judicial Funding and Taxation Mandates: Will Missouri v. Jenkins Survive Under the New Federalism Restraints?

Ohio State Law Journal, Vol. 61, p. 483, 2000

Suffolk University Law School Research Paper

183 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2014

Janice C. Griffith

Suffolk University Law School

Date Written: 2000

Abstract

The judiciary frequently mandates costly institutional reforms to correct state and local governmental constitutional violations. This Article examines the unprecedented equitable power exercised by a federal district court in its oversight of a school desegregation remedial plan in Kansas City, Missouri at a cost exceeding $1.8 billion. The district court ordered taxation to ensure funding for the remedial plan and directed local authorities to disregard state law limitations that barred such taxation.

Dean Griffith criticizes the judiciary's disregard of remedial plan costs in devising institutional reforms. She proposes that courts apply a balancing test in the remedial process -- weighing both governmental interests, including fiscal constraints, and the need to remedy constitutional violations. The judiciary should evaluate the effectiveness of a proposed remedy as well. The mandated expenditures in the Jenkins litigation failed to improve test scores appreciably or to improve the district's racial balance by attracting a significant number of white students.

Challenging the assumption that federalism restraints do not apply to the judiciary's remedial powers, Dean Griffith argues that the Constitution's federal structure, separation of powers principles, comity precepts, and the Guarantee Clause limit judicial power to some extent. She points out that the Supreme Court's 1990 Missouri v. Jenkins decision upholding the district court's taxation orders lacks consistency with the Court's recent federalism rulings that have invalidated congressional acts viewed as excessively interfering with the operation of state governmental functions. Viewing judicial taxation orders as deeply intrusive upon state government and administration, Dean Griffith argues that such taxation should be foreclosed except when tax structure deficiencies cause constitutional violations to be plainly remediless. She rejects court-ordered taxation that is not authorized by state law as involving the judiciary in law making, a legislative function.

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Janice C., Judicial Funding and Taxation Mandates: Will Missouri v. Jenkins Survive Under the New Federalism Restraints? (2000). Ohio State Law Journal, Vol. 61, p. 483, 2000, Suffolk University Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2540607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
James 1005-09 (6th Cir. 1988) (upholding on comity principles a district court's refusal to hear a claim alleging that Kentucky's property tax assessment policies relating to coal, oil, and gas property interests violated equal protection principles)
See Nagel, supra note 602, at 663 (citing THE FEDERALIST Posted: 1981
See Id
holding that comity bars federal courts from granting injunctive and declaratory relief in challenges to state tax systems); see also Great Lakes , volume 1 , p. 300 - 301
Mcnary
, p. 113 - 129
See Missouri V , Jenkins
, volume 33 Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
RANK
897,570
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Suffolk University Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies