Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anatomy of a Special Tax Break and the Case for Broad Corporate Tax Reform

12 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2014

Robert J. Shapiro

Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Date Written: March 20, 2013

Abstract

This essay provides a case study of the difficulties entailed in reforming the corporate tax code by examining the costs and distortions associated with one large special tax preference, Section 199 of the corporate code. Enacted in 2005, this provision provides a special deduction for some of the profits arising from certain designated “domestic production activities.” Our analysis shows that while the provision was originally intended to help manufacturing, it now provides tax benefits for a number of other, selected industries, including the information industry (including film production), mining, and construction. In many cases, eligibility is arbitrary: For example, food processing qualifies but not retail food businesses – unless the food establishment roasts beans used to brew coffee. At the same time, vital areas such as health care, finance, insurance, and educational services receive no benefit, and neither do many labor-intensive industries such as transportation and warehousing, administration and support, retail trade, and accommodations and food services. From 2005 to 2009, for example, Section 199 provided the information and movie industry, on average, 60 times the benefits received by these other vital and job-intensive industries. And within the manufacturing sector, Section 199 provided by far the greatest benefits, relative to the size of manufacturing sub-industries, to beverage and tobacco producers, followed by chemicals, and then by computer and electronic products. Traditional manufacturing industries such as textiles, apparel, wood products, leather products, printing, and furniture cannot claim significant benefits from Section 199. We also show that that while these allocations distort investment, there is no evidence that the provision promotes job creation in those industries that use it most.

Furthermore, the highly complex terms of Section 199 induce companies to channel their investment and other business decisions in the particular ways required to claim the deduction. As a result, Section 199 further distorts the allocation of capital and other critical resources, including entrepreneurial activity, both within and across industries, and for the economy as a whole. Finally, Section 199 also costs the Treasury an average of more than $16 billion a year, putting upward pressure of the corporate rate. In the end, Section 199, like other special preferences, tends to reduce the efficiency and output of both those firms which claim the preference and those effectively unable to do so. By phasing out such preferences, policymakers could eliminate their distorting effects, and generate some $164 billion over the next 10 years. So doing would produce sufficient revenues to reduce the tax rate for all corporations by 1.2 to 1.3 percentage-points.

Keywords: section 199, corporate tax reform, domestic produciton deduction

JEL Classification: E22, H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shapiro, Robert J., Anatomy of a Special Tax Break and the Case for Broad Corporate Tax Reform (March 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2541896 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2541896
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
eFFectS oF Repealing Section , volume 199 , p. 2012 - 2021 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Source: Joint Committee on Taxation Posted: 2011-10-21
Crossref
Reuters Dixon
Posted: 2012
Crossref
Joint Committee on Taxation Posted: 2011-10-21
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
576,212
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies