Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Anatomy of Valuing Stock in Closely Held Corporations: Pursuing the Phantom of Objectivity into the New Millennium

COLUMBIA BUSINESS LAW REVIEW, No. 1, 2001

42 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2014

Stephen Leacock

Barry University - Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law

Date Written: 2001

Abstract

Valuing stock in closely-held corporations is perplexing for most courts. Valuation techniques are complex and courts are often unfamiliar with accounting and financial theory. However, valuation of stock in close corporations is required in order to assess income taxes from purchases or sales, for corporations which are reorganizing, or when someone dies and bequeaths shares in a closely held corporation which are subject to estate tax. Gifts of shares in a closely-held corporation are also subject to taxation.

No objective standard exists to guide judges, academic commentators and practitioners. Although both the IRS and the courts strive to conform to meaningful financial theories and legal precedents, the resulting valuations often differ.

This paper discusses a number of different valuation approaches that the courts have followed, particularly with respect to contested valuations in income, estate, and gift taxation cases.

Keywords: Stocks, close corporations, gifts of stock, stock valuation, contested stock valuations

JEL Classification: K20, K22, K10

Suggested Citation:

Leacock, Stephen, The Anatomy of Valuing Stock in Closely Held Corporations: Pursuing the Phantom of Objectivity into the New Millennium (2001). COLUMBIA BUSINESS LAW REVIEW, No. 1, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2542288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Irrefutably, public information is available pertaining to publicly-traded securities which are subject to marketimposed factors as to marketability. 7 ' An appropriate discount can therefore be deduced by looking at (a) the discounts actually received by professional investors who bought these securities under the restrictions of an investment letter, (b) comparisons between other publicly-held infrequent and which therefore lacks marketability
methodology used to determine this discount -necessary because of the lack of marketability -can be more computational
We also think that a discount of 30 percent for lack of marketability is appropriate in these circumstances
F.2d at 405
T C M Michael , L Johnson
However, although discounts for lack of control are allowed in appropriate circumstances, unfortunately the distinctions between these two different types of discounts are too often blurred
Comment, Valuing Closely Held Stock: Control Premiums and Minority Discounts , volume 127 , p. 152 - 53 Posted: 1979
E
A control premium may be necessary when valuing an interest which gives its holder unilateral power to direct corporate action, select management, decide the amount of distributions, rearrange the corporation's capital structure, and decide whether to liquidate, merge or sell assets
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,121
RANK
342,603
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Empirical Research on Judicial Reasoning: Statutory Interpretation in Federal Tax Cases

By Daniel M. Schneider

An Empirical Walk Down Valuation Way: Are the Valuation Methods of Closely Held Companies Chosen by the Courts a Function of the Type of Case and Level of Court?

By James A. Digabriele

Asset and Business Valuation in Estate Tax Cases: The Role of the Courts

By Mark Jackson, Sonja Pippin, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies