Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inversion Notice Boxes Out Foreign Insurers and Reinsurers

Tax Notes, Vol. 145, at 1259, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2014 Last revised: 21 Apr 2015

William Pauls

Deloitte Tax LLP

Date Written: December 15, 2014

Abstract

In Notice 2014-52, 2014-42 I.R.B. 712 (the Inversion Notice), the Internal Revenue Service described additions that will be made to the Treasury regulations under section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code to curb inversions. As discussed in this article, the Inversion Notice targets the use of foreign "cash boxes" to complete inversions that otherwise would fall outside the purview of section 7874. In so doing, the Inversion Notice equates foreign insurers and reinsurers with cash boxes by offering only a limited exclusion for the assets that those companies hold in the ordinary conduct of their insurance businesses. Conversely, the Inversion Notice offers foreign banks and finance companies much broader exclusions for the assets that those companies hold in the ordinary conduct of their banking and financing businesses. Unfortunately, the policy justification underpinning the disparate treatment afforded foreign insurers and reinsurers is not apparent on the face of the Inversion Notice, and, in the absence of further clarification from Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service, that treatment could have a chilling effect on acquisitions of domestic corporations (whether insurance companies or otherwise) by foreign insurers and reinsurers, just when their interest in completing those acquisitions is picking up.

Keywords: inversions, inversion transactions, section 7874, notice 2014-52, cash box, cash box rule, foreign insurer, foreign reinsurer, cross-border acquisitions

JEL Classification: K34, H25, E62

Suggested Citation:

Pauls, William, Inversion Notice Boxes Out Foreign Insurers and Reinsurers (December 15, 2014). Tax Notes, Vol. 145, at 1259, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2543830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
RANK
766,148
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies