Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of the Changing European Union Regulations on Estonian Accounting Policies

Discussions on Estonian Economic Policy: Developments in the EU Member States After the Economic Crisis, No. 2, 2014

19 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2014

Maret Güldenkoh

Tallinn University of Technology Estonian Maritime Academy

Uno Silberg

Estonian Academy of Security Sciences

Date Written: October 30, 2014

Abstract

Financial reporting and audit activities are the areas to ensure the legitimacy of the everyday economic activities of the accounting entities. Financial reporting provides information on the past periods of the accounting entities; the audit activity is used to verify the accuracy of the recorded information and an assessment is given to the financial position of the audited entities. Auditing of financial statements prepared on the basis of historical financial information, results in increased reliability of the economic environment and stability of the financial environment of the state. The objective of this research was to assess the suitability of the European Union reporting principles for the auditing activity in Estonia. This objective was achieved with the following research tasks: 1) to provide an overview of the legal framework of the EU financial reporting and auditing activities; 2) to assess the problems related to the transposition of the legal framework in Estonia.

The article consists of two parts, the first part provides an overview of the regulation of financial reporting and auditing activities in the European Union. The second part assess the impact of the European Union legislation on financial reporting and audit activities for the activities of the corresponding areas in Estonia.

The research method used was a combined method, in the course of which legal acts were collected and analyzed, analysis of the data obtained from the commercial register was carried out and the impact of the Directive 2013/34 / EC to the accounting area of Estonia was assessed.

Upon application of the Directive 2013/34/EU to the Estonia's legal framework, one cannot be sure that the desired administrative burden is reduced, rather it could bring along growth of the administrative burden for the accounting entities, which comprises the obligation of submission of additional reporting to various authorities. The reporting process could become more time-consuming. The decline in reporting volume could present a risk to the transparency and sustainability of the economic environment.

Rather than reducing administrative burdens that are the goal of Directive 2013/34/EU, in Estonia the effect is just the opposite. The implementation of the Directive will result in an increase of the administrative burden and the obligation of duplication of reporting, which in turn can lead to a lack of transparency in the economic environment. The accounting entities will fail to submit the financial reports to the register on a timely manner, which in turn puts into question the information contained in the reports. Establishment of the audit limits would result in a reduction in the auditing obligation, an estimated 97-99% of entrepreneurs will remain unaudited.

Keywords: financial accounting, auditing, the administrative burden

JEL Classification: F65; G18; G32; G38

Suggested Citation:

Güldenkoh, Maret and Silberg, Uno, Impact of the Changing European Union Regulations on Estonian Accounting Policies (October 30, 2014). Discussions on Estonian Economic Policy: Developments in the EU Member States After the Economic Crisis, No. 2, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2543971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2543971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A Al-Omari
The institutional framework of financial reporting in Jordan
Finance and Administrative Sciences , volume 22 , p. 32 - 50 Posted: 2010
D Alexander , E Jermakowicz
A True and Fair View of the Principles/Rules Debate
Abacus , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 132 - 164 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J Alver , L Alver
Development of Accounting and Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards in Estonia , p. 101 - 113 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Alver , L Alver
Harmonization of SME's Financial Reporting in Emerging CEE Countries , p. 71 - 103 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
588,428
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies