Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Computational and Timing Challenge of Quarterly Nonlife (Re)Insurance Liability Evaluation Under IFRS 4 Phase 2

The Journal of Financial Perspectives, Vol. 2, No. 3, November 2014

47 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2015

Eric Dal Moro

Baloise Versicherung

Jayne Faulkner

SCOR Global P&C SE Reinsurance (Zurich Branch)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 1, 2014

Abstract

Among the many changes and revolutions that the (re)insurance industry will face in the next few years, introduction of the new standard IFRS 4 phase 2 is one that will certainly impact the way in which the (re)insurance business is managed. Not only will this new standard impact insurance accounting schemes, but it will also impact the performance evaluation of the whole insurance industry in general and each line of business being underwritten by the industry. As a result, some companies may decide to withdraw from some lines of business and/or to concentrate on other lines of business. Given that the final stage of implementation is still years away, it seems that many are not spending the time necessary to consider the timing and stress issues that the (re)insurance industry will face when it comes to implementing the new standard. We suggest that these issues need to be considered soon, since they will most likely result in significant organizational changes involving actuaries, finance, risk modeling and investor relations. This small article highlights some of the major issues that (re)insurance companies will face when coming to implement the new standard and proposes some practical solutions to tackle the most pressing ones.

Keywords: IFRS 4 Phase 2, non-life insurance, Cost of capital, liability, risk adjustment margin, contractual service margin

JEL Classification: G22, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dal Moro, Eric and Faulkner, Jayne, The Computational and Timing Challenge of Quarterly Nonlife (Re)Insurance Liability Evaluation Under IFRS 4 Phase 2 (November 1, 2014). The Journal of Financial Perspectives, Vol. 2, No. 3, November 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544854
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,599
RANK
288,883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Health Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies