Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Profit and Loss from the Management Perspective: How Are the Earnings Presented in the Management Reports?

Journal of Education and Research in Accounting, REPeC, Brasília, v. 8, n. 4, art. 1, p. 344-360, October/December 2014

29 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2015 Last revised: 8 Feb 2015

Luiz Henrique Fernandes Vargas

Federal University of Espirito Santo

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Elizeu Junior

Federal University of Espirito Santo

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze how textual information on company earnings are presented in the Management Reports in alternating periods of profit and loss. The theoretical foundations were based on the agency theory and on impression management. A qualitative-quantitative approach was adopted and the data were analyzed through statistical tests of comparison of means based on content analysis. Management Reports were analyzed from 30 companies listed on BM&FBovespa – which presented profit in 2009 and loss in 2010. The main evidence found in the management report analysis were: i) difference in the number of lines and words between the profit and loss periods; ii) in loss periods, the occurrence of terms that express this result is limited and the terms Ebitda and gross margin are highlighted; and iii) there are signs of deviation of the users’ attention from the earnings to other indicators through the selection and repetition of financial terms, reducing the exposure of the negative results and enhancing the positive indicators. These results indicate an environment that reflects the information asymmetry problems, in which regulatory entities should develop policies to monitor the discretionary choices on Financial Statements that can mislead the market participants.

Keywords: Disclosure, Management reports, Impression management

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, M14

Suggested Citation:

Vargas, Luiz Henrique Fernandes and Almeida, Jose Elias and Junior, Elizeu, Profit and Loss from the Management Perspective: How Are the Earnings Presented in the Management Reports? (2014). Journal of Education and Research in Accounting, REPeC, Brasília, v. 8, n. 4, art. 1, p. 344-360, October/December 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
Crossref
L Bardin
Análise de conteúdo Posted: 2007
V A Beattie , M J Jones
Impression management: the case of inter-country financial graphs
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 183 Posted: 2000
Crossref
V A Beattie , M J Jones
Measure distortion of graphs in corporate reports: an experimental study
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 546 - 564 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
245
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
RANK
285,369
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies