Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Approach to Private Firm Fair Value Valuation in Line with IFRS 13 – The Concept of the Most Advantageous Market Discount (MAMD)

BEH - Business and Economic Horizons, Volume 10 | Issue 1 | 2014 |pp.79-85

7 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2015

Paweł Mielcarz

Kozminski University

Date Written: October 1, 2014

Abstract

IFRS 13, adopted in 2013, introduced a general framework for fair value valuation of unquoted equity instruments. It has to be performed in line with the “highest and best use” concept and in the conditions of potential transactions carried out on “the most advantageous market”. This article presents a new and comprehensive approach to the valuation process of such instruments, which meets these IFRS 13 requirements. This approach applies a concept of the most advantageous market discount (MAMD), based on the well-known underpricing phenomenon. The application of this discount along with the Markowitz theory results in a cohesive, comprehensive and practical framework for unquoted equity instruments valuation according to the fair value concept compliant with IFRS 13. Additionally, this paper presents estimations of MAMD for the UK, Germany, France, Switzerland, and Poland. The obtained results can help valuation practitioners apply the MAMD concept in the process of unquoted equity instruments valuation according to IFRS 13. Compared to other approaches which address the issue of private company valuation, the presented valuation framework for the first time reconciles the requirements set in IFRS 13 fair value definition with the assumption of valuation in the reality of imperfect markets.

Keywords: IFRS 13, fair value, private equity valuation, underpricing

JEL Classification: G12, G32, G34, M48

Suggested Citation:

Mielcarz, Paweł, A New Approach to Private Firm Fair Value Valuation in Line with IFRS 13 – The Concept of the Most Advantageous Market Discount (MAMD) (October 1, 2014). BEH - Business and Economic Horizons, Volume 10 | Issue 1 | 2014 |pp.79-85, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2544930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
K Abdou , M F Dicle
Do risk factors matter in the IPO valuation?
Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 63 - 89 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J A Cañadas , A Ramirez
The Discount Rate in Valuing Privately Held Companies
Business Valuation Review , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 70 - 81 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S T Certo , T R Holcomb , R M Holmes
IPO Research in Management and Entrepreneurship: Moving the Agenda Forward
Journal of Management , volume 35 , p. 1340 - 1378 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A.-S Chen , L.-Y Cheng , K.-F Cheng , S.-W Chih
Earnings management, market discounts and the performance of private equity placements
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 1922 - 1932 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,955
RANK
271,971
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies