Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Forensic Investigation Professionals in the Prevention of Fraud and Corruption in Developing Countries

Posted: 12 Jan 2015

Professor Alain Ndedi

International Council for Family Business; YENEPAD; Saint Monica University; University of Johannesburg; University of Pretoria; Prime Light Open University

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: January 5, 2015

Abstract

The menace of fraud and corruption in nation building cannot be overemphasized, especially since the 2008 world economic crisis. In most cases, fraud and corruption have limited the economic growth and the development of infrastructures in many nations. Furthermore, with the advent of electronic transactions, the occurrence of fraud and financial crimes have not decline, but the modus operandi has indeed changed and increased. Many techniques have been developed to deal with these crimes. Experiences has shown that curbing the menace of fraud and corruption cannot be handled only by law enforcement and investigation agencies, because the problem requests to move beyond traditional auditing and investigation processes. This paper brings the impact of forensic investigation professionals in curbing and prosecuting fraud and corruption. The first part of the paper outlines the issue of fraud and corruption in nation building. The second part illustrates the impact of forensic investigation professionals in curbing financial fraud and corrupt practices.

Suggested Citation:

Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Ndedi, Professor Alain Aime and Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, The Role of Forensic Investigation Professionals in the Prevention of Fraud and Corruption in Developing Countries (January 5, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2545274
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,409
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies