Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dear I.R.S., It Is Time to Enforce the Campaigning Prohibition. Even Against Churches

University of Colorado Law Review, Vol. 87, 2016

Loyola University Chicago School of Law Research Paper No. 2015-003

62 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2015 Last revised: 5 Mar 2016

Samuel D. Brunson

Loyola University Chicago School of Law

Date Written: January 7, 2015

Abstract

In 1954, Congress prohibited tax-exempt public charities, including churches, from endorsing or opposing candidates for office. To the extent a tax-exempt public charity violated this prohibition, it would no longer qualify as tax-exempt, and the I.R.S. was to revoke its exemption.

While simple in theory, in practice, the I.R.S. rarely penalizes churches that violate the campaigning prohibition, and virtually never revokes a church’s tax exemption. And, because no taxpayer has standing to challenge the I.R.S.’s inaction, the I.R.S. has no external imperative to revoke the exemptions of churches that do campaign on behalf of or against candidates for office.

This argument makes the normative case that, notwithstanding the I.R.S.’s administrative discretion and the inability of taxpayers to challenge its nonenforcement in court, the time has come for the I.R.S. to begin enforcing the campaigning prohibition. Failing to do so harms the Rule of Law, the taxpaying public, and churches themselves. Moreover, the moment is correct for enforcement, as Pulpit Freedom Sunday has virtually eliminated the I.R.S.’s search costs, people are more aware than ever that churches are violating the prohibition, and, in the aftermath of the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, the campaigning prohibition may represent the final regulatory barrier between charities and politicking.

Even if enforcing the campaigning prohibition is the right thing to do, it would potentially be unpopular, and could provoke a backlash against the I.R.S. After making the normative case for enforcement, then, this Article provides a strategy for enforcement that will allow the I.R.S. to explain what it is doing and why to the general taxpaying public, and will further permit the I.R.S. to avoid the appearance of partisanship. Ultimately, enforcement will allow the I.R.S. to responsibly administer the tax law, will permit the question of the prohibition’s constitutionality to get in front of the judiciary, and will demonstrate dedication to the Rule of Law.

Keywords: federal income tax, 501(c)(3), campaigning prohibition, church, public charity, rule of law, administrative discretion, I.R.S., enforcement, pulpit freedom sunday, excise tax, judicial review, revocation

Suggested Citation:

Brunson, Samuel D., Dear I.R.S., It Is Time to Enforce the Campaigning Prohibition. Even Against Churches (January 7, 2015). University of Colorado Law Review, Vol. 87, 2016, Loyola University Chicago School of Law Research Paper No. 2015-003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2546453 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2546453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Vincent , Schodolski
Political Sermons Stir Up the IRS: Effort to Enforce Tax-Exempt Rules or Bid to Bully Pulpits? Posted: 2005-11-20
D-8r3a
David J Herzig
Justice For All: Reimagining the Internal Revenue Service, 33 VA. TAX REV , volume 23 Posted: 2013
Marilyn Young
The Political Economy of the IRS , volume 13 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,998
RANK
355,843
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies