Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Loving v. IRS: The IRS's Achilles' Heel for Regulated Tax Advice?

Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 34, p. 191, 2014

38 Pages Posted: 11 Jan 2015

Jamie Hopkins

The American College

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

In an attempt to regulate the multi-billion dollar tax preparer industry — which employs hundreds of thousands of employees — the Internal Revenue Service (Service) began developing rules pertaining specifically to non-professional tax return preparers, previously unregulated by the Service. However, the Service’s attempt to expand its regulatory reach over non-professional tax return preparers was short-lived. It resulted in a severely damaging decision in Loving v. IRS, in which the court concluded that the Service had only limited statutory authority to regulate non-professional tax preparers. While the Service focused its attention on additional ways to rein in tax return preparers, tax professionals took notice of the Loving I and II decisions as they might apply in a broader context, and an important question arose: to what extent can the Service regulate those tax professionals, such as lawyers and certified public accountants (CPAs), if the tax professional only provides tax advice or mere tax preparation services but does not “represent” taxpayers before the Service? Not more than six months later this question was partially answered in another landmark decision in Ridgely v. Lew in which Loving II was applied not only to non-professional tax preparers, but to tax professionals as well, further crippling the ability of the Service to regulate tax professionals and the tax preparation industry. Following Ridgely, the Service is left with one final beacon of hope to regulate tax professionals, 31 U.S.C. § 330(d), which the Service believes empowers it with the ability to regulate written tax advice provided by all tax practitioners. However, if the statutory analysis used in Ridgely and Loving is applied to 31 U.S.C. § 330(d), a reasonable interpretation might limit the Service’s ability to regulate written tax advice only to those situations in which a tax practitioner is practicing as a representative before the Service.

Keywords: tax, IRS, law, accountants, lawyers, professionals, regulation, Ridgely, Loving, Code, legal, advice, taxation

Suggested Citation:

Hopkins, Jamie, Loving v. IRS: The IRS's Achilles' Heel for Regulated Tax Advice? (2014). Virginia Tax Review, Vol. 34, p. 191, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2547716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
U S C
authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to inquire into taxpayer's tax liability). 61 26 C
F.R. § , volume 7601 Posted: 1976
Irs , Brief Gov , History , Irs
Posted: 2013-12-03
Id
Pollock V
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,198
RANK
270,901
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies