Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Created Intangibles: Maintenance Deductions and Current Income

Tax Notes, Vol. 144, No. 10, 2014

12 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2015

Yoseph M. Edrey

University of Haifa - Faculty of Law

Date Written: September 8, 2014

Abstract

In response to an article by Calvin H. Johnson, Edrey presents a novel analysis of two aspects of intangibles taxation: (1) whether the costs of creating assets, including goodwill, should be characterized as ordinary or capital in nature; and (2) what the appropriate distinction between capital gains and ordinary income is, and how the gains or losses derived from the disposition of that property should be classified.

Johnson pointed out that there is an asymmetry regarding the taxation of intangibles under existing law. While the costs of creating an intangible are immediately deductible, the profit derived from the intangible’s sale is capital in nature. That asymmetry yields a negative tax that leads to an increase in the internal rate of return — because of the income tax rules — from 10 percent to 25 percent. In terms of economic efficiency and tax equity, those are undesirable results. Johnson suggests that the solution is to consider the intangible’s creation costs as capital, rather than ordinary, and to classify the gain derived from the intangible’s sale as capital. For practical reasons, Johnson reverts to what appears to be an alternate solution: The intangible’s creation costs should be considered ordinary, and the gain from its sale should be taxed as ordinary income.

Edrey agrees with Johnson’s conclusion, but offers a novel, different, accurate, and optimal analysis based on accepted principles of tax theory and business management literature. His suggested analysis is twofold:

First, according to an established insight in business and marketing management — evolve, adapt, grow, or perish — goodwill of a business is graphically depicted as a positive slope. The costs of creating goodwill are necessary to maintaining a company’s constant growth, and they should be regarded as maintaining the existing income-producing process of the company. Thus, those costs should be considered ordinary and necessary expenses.

Second, Edrey classifies the profit or loss produced by the sale creates goodwill as ordinary income in nature. The underlying rationale for the distinction is that the taxpayer creates ordinary in- come by using his factors of production, whereas he makes a capital gain by selling his factors of production.

Next, Edrey offers a three-step test for distinguishing between ordinary income and capital gain or loss when disposing of property. The first step is based on the inquiry of the process that creates a gain or a loss. Edrey explains that gain or loss is caused by a change in the expectation of the present value of the future income stream that the property was expected to produce. For that calculation, a comparison is made between the present value when the property was bought and when it was sold. The second step examines what changed the expectation. The third step identifies what is responsible for creating the causes. If the causes are internal — that is, created by the taxpayer while using his factors of production — the gain is classified as ordinary income. But if the gain is caused by external factors that the taxpayer cannot possibly control, the profit or loss should be treated as a capital gain or loss. When a taxpayer sells the goodwill he created by using his own factors of production, the gain or loss is made by internal causes. Therefore the gains derived from the disposition of those assets should be classified as ordinary income.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Intangibles, Goodwill, Capital gains and ordinary income, Deductions

Suggested Citation:

Edrey, Yoseph M., Created Intangibles: Maintenance Deductions and Current Income (September 8, 2014). Tax Notes, Vol. 144, No. 10, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2548245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,009
RANK
610,038
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies