Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Regulatory Harmonization on Cross-Border Labor Migration: Evidence from the Accounting Profession

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 303/2016

Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 15-03

82 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2015 Last revised: 22 Dec 2016

Matthew J. Bloomfield

The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania

Ulf Brüggemann

Humboldt University of Berlin - School of Business and Economics; TRR 266 Accounting for Transparency

Hans Bonde Christensen

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Christian Leuz

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI); Leibniz Institute SAFE; CESifo Research Network; Center for Financial Studies (CFS)

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 1, 2016

Abstract

The paper examines whether international regulatory harmonization increases cross-border labor migration. To study this question, we analyze European Union (EU) initiatives that harmonized accounting and auditing standards. Regulatory harmonization should reduce economic mobility barriers, essentially making it easier for accounting professionals to move across countries. Our research design compares the cross-border migration of accounting professionals relative to tightly-matched other professionals before and after regulatory harmonization. We find that international labor migration in the accounting profession increases significantly relative to other professions. We provide evidence that this effect is due to harmonization, rather than increases in the demand for accounting services during the implementation of the rule changes. The findings illustrate that diversity in rules constitutes an economic barrier to cross-border labor mobility and, more specifically, that accounting harmonization can have a meaningful effect on cross-border migration.

Keywords: Accounting harmonization, Regulation, IFRS, European Union, Labor migration and mobility

JEL Classification: D10, E24, F22, F55, F66, J44, J61, J62, K22, L51, L84, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Matthew J. and Brüggemann, Ulf and Christensen, Hans Bonde and Leuz, Christian, The Effect of Regulatory Harmonization on Cross-Border Labor Migration: Evidence from the Accounting Profession (September 1, 2016). European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) - Law Working Paper No. 303/2016, Chicago Booth Research Paper No. 15-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2551569 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2551569
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
C S Armstrong , W R Guay , J P Weber
The role of information and financial reporting in corporate governance and debt contracting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 50 , p. 179 - 234 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus standards: properties of accounting income in four East Asian countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
S Balsam , E A Gordon , X Li
Mandatory Disclosure Reform, Monitoring, and Executive Compensation. Working paper Posted: 2015
J Bakija , J Slemrod
Do the rich flee from high state taxes? Evidence from federal estate tax returns. Working paper Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,056
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,166
RANK
37,400
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies