Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retrieving Financial Information in XBRL on the Next-Generation Edgar

XIV International Business and Economy Conference Bangkok, Thailand, January 5-8, 2015

11 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2015

Jianing Fang

Marist College

Date Written: January 26, 2015

Abstract

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has upgraded the old Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system, to the Interactive Data Electronic Applications (IDEA) platform, or the Next-Generation EDGAR (New EDGAR). In January 2009, the SEC issued its final mandate for XBRL adoption and the conversion target dates for all firms. This conversion enables users to retrieve listed companies’ financial statement information at both document level and data element level. This paper reviews the basic concepts of XBRL, reports the current compliance status of the SEC XBRL conversion mandate. The main contribution of this article is to demonstrate how to retrieve data from the New EDGAR and process them with Microsoft Excel 2013.

Keywords: EDGAR, XBRL, IDEA, EXCEL 2013

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Jianing, Retrieving Financial Information in XBRL on the Next-Generation Edgar (January 26, 2015). XIV International Business and Economy Conference Bangkok, Thailand, January 5-8, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2555784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2555784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
P Bizarro , A Garcia
XBRL-Beyond the Basics
The CPA Journal , issue 5 Posted: 2010
R Cable , P Healy
XBRL in the Accounting Curriculum. Working paper--American Accounting Association Mid-Atlantic Region Annual Meeting Proceedings Posted: 2013-05
E Capozzoli , S Farewell
SEC XBRL Filing Requirements: An Instructional Case on Tagging Financial Statement Disclosures
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 25 , p. 489 - 511 Posted: 2010
Crossref
J Fang
How CPAs Can Maser XBRL
The CPA Journal , issue 5 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
251
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,973
RANK
278,525
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Securities Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies