Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies, Benefits and Challeges of Adoption of IFRS in India

International Journal of Accounting and Financial Management Research (IJAFMR), Forthcoming

10 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2015

Dr. Sushendra Kumar Misra

Dr B R Ambedkar National Insitute of Technology; Punjab Technical University

Vimal Aggarwal

Gian Jyoti Institute of Management & Technology

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

A set of rich value and quality accounting standards related to financial reporting are required worldwide in order to operate businesses successfully. Over the past three decades accounting bodies and professional has been contributing to the worldwide efforts with an objective to promoting uniform and harmonized financial reporting system. The globalization have necessitated for a corporate sector to have a uniform, single and universally acceptable system of financial reporting. In 2001, International Financial Reporting Standards were developed with the contributions of International Accounting Standard Board with a view to facilitate a particular set of rich quality and understandable standards for financial reporting. The inaugural of economic reforms and globalization in the late 1980s led the process of changes in financial reporting methods in India. So Indian government also determined to converge its local accounting standards to IFRS. In 2006, ICAI constituted a task force with an objective to propose a blue prints for convergence process in India. This paper is an attempt to discuss the Indian scenario in context to roadmap of IFRS adoption, efficacy of adoption, complications in this convergence process. To conclude, paper suggests ways to address these obstacles.

Keywords: International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

JEL Classification: M41, G38

Suggested Citation:

Misra, Sushendra Kumar and Aggarwal, Vimal, Strategies, Benefits and Challeges of Adoption of IFRS in India (December 1, 2014). International Journal of Accounting and Financial Management Research (IJAFMR), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2560912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
E Baker
Crossref
C &amp; Lembke , E King
Advanced Financial Accounting Posted: 2009
R Ball , A Robin , J S Wu
Incentives versus Standards: Properties of Accounting Income in Four East Asian Countries
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 36 , p. 235 - 270 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J J Benjamin , K G Stanga
Differences in Disclosure Needs of Major Users of Major Financial Statements
Accounting and Business Research , p. 187 - 192 Posted: 1977
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
442
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,569
RANK
150,292
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies