Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Business Reporting Changed During the Financial Crisis: A Comparative Case Study of Two Large U.S. Banks

Problems and Perspectives in Management, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 191-208, 2014

18 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2015

Mark Muheki

Independent

Klarissa Lueg

Aarhus University - Department of Business Communication

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Christian Schmaltz

Aarhus University; True North Institute

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Challenging times, such as the recent financial crisis, appear to cause organizations to change their business reporting. Yet, there is not much evidence of how changes in business reporting were enacted by banks, and there is only little discussion about the extent to which this can be seen and assessed as crisis communication. Using a comparative case study of two U.S. banks, we investigate how their way to report financial performance changed during the ‘troubled times.’ The investigation uses annual reports that cover years before and during the financial crisis.

The findings suggest that the two banks have substantially changed their business reporting due to new regulations, the unfavorable economic situation, as well as strategic challenges such as loss in customer satisfaction. We thus conclude that business reporting can be seen – at least temporarily – as a tool for crisis communication. We document our findings along the four perspectives the banks use for their business reporting and that reflect the banks’ main stakeholders: shareholders, customers, employees and the community.

Keywords: banks, financial crisis, financial reporting, banking regulation, crisis communication

JEL Classification: M10, G21

Suggested Citation:

Muheki, Mark and Lueg, Klarissa and Lueg, Rainer and Schmaltz, Christian and Schmaltz, Christian, How Business Reporting Changed During the Financial Crisis: A Comparative Case Study of Two Large U.S. Banks (2015). Problems and Perspectives in Management, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 191-208, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2562096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Improving Business Reporting -A Customer Focus: Meeting the Information Needs of Investors and Creditors. Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting Posted: 1994
Crossref
F Allen , E Carletti
An Overview of the crisis: causes, consequences, and solutions
International Review of Finance , volume 10 , p. 1 - 26 Posted: 2010
Crossref
America Bank Of
Bank of America Posted: 1999
America Bank Of
Bank of America Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,264
RANK
143,068
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies