Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Socialization through Mentoring in the U.S. Public Accounting Profession

Posted: 16 Feb 2015

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Sridhar Ramamoorti

Kennesaw State University - Michael J. Coles College of Business

Kathryn K. Epps

Kennesaw State University

Date Written: November 6, 2014

Abstract

This paper uses broad brush strokes to paint an historical and contemporary perspective on socialization through mentoring in the U.S. public accounting profession. The accounting profession needs the socialization mechanism of mentor-protégé relationships to groom future leaders, to create a passion for excellence, and to engender a sense of pride in the profession [Fogarty, 1992; cf. Ramamoorti et al., 1999]. The benefits of mentoring are well-documented by Levinson et al. [1978] and are subsequently validated in the context of the public accounting profession [Dirsmith and Covaleski, 1985; Scandura and Viator 1994; and Siegel et al., 1995]. The mentor, as a role model, has the primary function of sponsoring, supporting, and facilitating a young accounting professional’s realization of his or her full potential [Viator and Pasewark, 2005]. Entrants to the profession ought to be able to learn from seasoned and highly successful practitioners as well as others so that, in time, they can become mentors in their own right [Kleinman et al., 2001]. We summarize the key past findings from selected studies including a discussion of the four stages of mentoring: initiation and cultivation (nurturing), followed by separation and re-definition (transition). We also discuss alignment strategies for nurturing as well as transitioning in the context of viable mentor-protégé relationships and point to directions for future research.

Keywords: Mentoring, mentor, protegee, mentee, accounting profession

JEL Classification: J44, M41

Suggested Citation:

Muehlmann, Brigitte and Ramamoorti, Sridhar and Epps, Kathryn K., Socialization through Mentoring in the U.S. Public Accounting Profession (November 6, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2565453
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,404
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies