Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Abusive Tax Avoidance and Institutional Corruption: The Responsibilities of Tax Professionals

Edmond J. Safra Working Paper No. 56

54 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2015 Last revised: 24 Feb 2015

Gillian Brock

University of Auckland - Dept. of Philosophy; Harvard University - Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics; Institute for Corruption Studies

Hamish Russell

University of Toronto

Date Written: February 17, 2015

Abstract

Professionals and professional firms provide a range of taxation-related services, from advising clients on their tax obligations to designing and implementing tax-reduction strategies. Provided that tax professionals respect the letter of the law, are all such tax services morally permissible? We answer this question in the negative by distinguishing between institutional integrity and institutional corruption in fiscal arrangements; tax services that promote a situation of fiscal institutional corruption are impermissible, given that they severely inhibit the ability of taxation institutions to collect revenue efficiently and equitably. The professional facilitation of abusive tax avoidance — explicit tax reduction that is contrary to the spirit or intent of the law — is a particularly prominent aspect of fiscal institutional corruption. We illustrate the role of professionals in designing, promoting and implementing abusive tax avoidance strategies through several case studies, including the Wyly offshore network and the KPMG tax shelter scandal. In addition, we claim that tax professionals have specific responsibilities to help remedy institutional corruption associated with abusive tax avoidance. To argue this thesis, we present general principles for assigning remedial responsibilities to particular agents. We then apply those principles to determine what three major groups of tax professionals — accountants, lawyers, and financial experts — ought to do about abusive tax avoidance.

Keywords: Institutional corruption, institutional integrity, tax abuse, tax professionals and responsibilities, remedial responsibilities, abusive tax avoidance, fiscal corruption

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Gillian and Russell, Hamish, Abusive Tax Avoidance and Institutional Corruption: The Responsibilities of Tax Professionals (February 17, 2015). Edmond J. Safra Working Paper No. 56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2566281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2566281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
European Banks-Deutsche , Bank
HVB and UBS-were integral in KPMG's tax shelters, providing $7.8 billion in credit to KPMG clients that was used to generate tax losses through schemes such as OPIS. 109 Despite having good reason to believe that KPMG's shelters were contrary to the spirit (if not the letter) of U.S. law, all three banks continued to aid KPMG for several years
Lehman Six Wall Street Banks-Citigroup , Morgan Brothers , Merrill Stanley , Lynch
UBS, and Deutsche Bank-became the subjects of a U.S. Senate Subcommittee investigation for allegedly helping non Posted: 2008
Offshore Tax Evasion: The Effort to Collect Unpaid Taxes on Billions in Hidden Offshore Accounts Posted: 2014-08-20
Id
, volume 3
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
10,698
RANK
12,837
7 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies