Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposed in the Intervention Process of Continuous Improvement in Professional Services, the Case in an Accounting Firm

4 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2015 Last revised: 13 Aug 2015

Eloisa Cadenas M.

National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM)

Date Written: July 20, 2013

Abstract

Can often be seen in the services sector, the issue of certification as a way to ensure their services, this recognition is vital because in a competitive market will provide certain advantages. However, certification is not a title for itself for it a continuous improvement system must already exist in the existing processes intended to standardize and meet specifications as the standard. In the present article a methodology based on the identification of problems and opportunities for improvement considering the existing quality techniques applied to a professional services firm providing proposals and end solution that will optimize existing processes generating improved integral shown in the office.

Keywords: Continuous improvement, certification, service companies.

Suggested Citation:

Cadenas, Eloisa, Proposed in the Intervention Process of Continuous Improvement in Professional Services, the Case in an Accounting Firm (July 20, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2567838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
840
RANK
560,422
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies