Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Administrative Law to Challenge IRS Determinations

88 The Florida Bar Journal 81 (2014)

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 736

3 Pages Posted: 22 Feb 2015

Steve R. Johnson

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

A warrior who does not use all weapons risks unnecessary defeat. Taxpayers engaged in controversy with the IRS have often neglected to use - or even know they had - substantial arguments available to them under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. §551, et seq., and administrative common law. This article encourages taxpayers' counsel to explore such arguments. The article first establishes that administrative law principles apply in tax. The article then illustrates the possibilities through six examples of administrative law arguments that, depending on the facts of the particular case, could prove successful in litigating against the IRS.

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Steve R., Using Administrative Law to Challenge IRS Determinations (2014). 88 The Florida Bar Journal 81 (2014), FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 736, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2567768
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,482
RANK
449,075
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies