Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Sharing Be Taxed?

Washington University Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 4, 2016

Tulane Public Law Research Paper No. 15-3

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 352

82 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2015 Last revised: 21 May 2016

Shu-Yi Oei

Duke University School of Law

Diane M. Ring

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

The past few years have seen the rise of a new model of production and consumption of goods and services, often referred to as the “sharing economy.” Fueled by startups such as Uber and Airbnb, sharing enables individuals to obtain rides, accommodations, and other goods and services from peers via the Internet or mobile application in exchange for payment. The rise of sharing has raised questions about how it should be regulated, including whether existing laws and regulations can and should be enforced in this new sector or whether new ones are needed.

In this Article, we explore those questions in the context of taxation. We argue that, contrary to the claims of some commentators, the application of substantive tax law to sharing is mostly (though not completely) clear, because current law generally contains the concepts and categories necessary to tax sharing. However, tax enforcement and compliance may present challenges, as a result of two distinctive features of sharing. First, some sharing businesses tend to opportunistically pick the more favorable regulatory interpretation if there is ambiguity regarding which rule applies or whether a rule applies. This leads to compliance and enforcement gaps. Second, the “microbusiness” nature of sharing raises unique compliance and enforcement concerns. We suggest strategies for addressing these dual challenges, including lower information reporting thresholds, safe harbors and advance rulings to simplify tax reporting, and targeted enforcement efforts.

Keywords: sharing economy, collaborative consumption, peer-to-peer economy, 1099 economy, taxation, tax compliance, information reporting, occupancy taxes, Uber, Airbnb, Lyft, TaskRabbit, regulation

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H25, H26, H29, H52, J41, K20, K23, K34, L51, L62

Suggested Citation:

Oei, Shu-Yi and Ring, Diane M., Can Sharing Be Taxed? (September 10, 2015). Washington University Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 4, 2016, Tulane Public Law Research Paper No. 15-3, Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper No. 352, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2570584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2570584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 Citations
Caroline Bruckner , Thomas L. Hungerford
Failure to Contribute: An Estimate of the Consequences of Non-and Underpayment of Self-Employment Taxes by Independent Contractors, and On-Demand Workers on Social Security
47 Pages · Posted: 6 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hamid Yeganeh
An analysis of factors and conditions pertaining to the rise of the sharing economy
World Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and Sustainable Development , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Adam Pawlicz
Pros and cons of sharing economy regulation. Implications for sustainable city logistics
Transportation Research Procedia , volume 39 , p. 398 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
12,883
RANK
36,888
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston College Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tulane University School of Law Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies