Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New Provision for Tolling the Limitations Periods for Seeking Tax Refunds: Its History, Operation and Policy, and Suggestions for Reform

Missouri Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 4, P. 797, Fall 2000

81 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2001 Last revised: 26 Aug 2015

Bruce A. McGovern

South Texas College of Law Houston

Abstract

This Article examines a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that Congress enacted in 1998 that suspends the running of the limitations periods that apply to claims for tax refunds. The provision suspends the limitations periods when a taxpayer is "financially disabled," which is defined as being unable to manage one's financial affairs due to a sufficiently severe, medically determinable physical or mental impairment. Congress enacted this provision in response to a series of cases that culminated in a decision of the United States Supreme Court in which the Court held that courts could not equitably suspend, or "toll," the refund limitations periods under any circumstances. The Article discusses the long-standing judicial practice of tolling limitations periods as a matter of equity and shows how the contours of this practice as applied to claims against the federal government remain uncertain despite the Court's recent efforts to provide guidance. The Article also sets forth the history of, explains and illustrates the limitations periods that apply to administrative claims for tax refunds and demonstrates how an interpretation of these provisions that has gained acceptance in some courts is incorrect. After chronicling the series of cases that led Congress to enact the new Code provision, the author critically examines the new provision and provides guidance on issues of interpretation that are likely to arise. The author argues that the new provision is not well suited to the needs of the majority of taxpayers who are likely to seek its relief and contains requirements that are antithetical to its underlying purpose. The Article concludes by proposing four specific amendments to the new provision and by suggesting specific areas in which administrative guidance is necessary under the provision as it currently exists.

Suggested Citation:

McGovern, Bruce A., The New Provision for Tolling the Limitations Periods for Seeking Tax Refunds: Its History, Operation and Policy, and Suggestions for Reform. Missouri Law Review, Vol. 65, No. 4, P. 797, Fall 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=257129
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
One person could be appointed to serve in both capacities
See generally Paula L. Hannaford & Thomas L. Hafemeister, The National Probate Court Standards: The Role of the Courts in Guardianship and Conservatorship Proceedings , volume 147 , p. 149 - 50 Posted: 1994
E G See , Ala Code §
Posted: 1992
Alaska Stat
, volume 26 Posted: 1998
Crossref
IDAHO CODE § , issue b , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies