Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lost in Translation: A Journey Through the Bewildering Realm of IRS Interpretive Guidance

26 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2015

Tina Green

Capshaw Green, PLLC

Nikki L. Laing

Date Written: February 10, 2015

Abstract

The primary source of Federal tax law is the Internal Revenue Code. However, where the Code is ambiguous or contains “gaps,” practitioners often must look to interpretive guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. When consulting IRS interpretive guidance, the practitioner may query, “What is the value (if any) of this guidance? Does it carry the force of law, or is it merely persuasive?”

This article offers a survey of various types of IRS guidance, providing a description of each type of guidance and an analysis of how the guidance is applied in practice. One aspect of IRS guidance is the level of precedential value each type of guidance is purported to have. Practitioners must be wary of “official” guidance which actually carries little precedential weight in practice. Another element is judicial deference to IRS guidance, which has been called the “force of law gray zone.” Courts vary in their treatment of IRS guidance, and this article touches on how various courts have treated certain types of IRS guidance. Irrespective of the precedential value or judicial deference (or lack thereof) attributed to various types of IRS guidance, most (but not all) IRS guidance is relevant in the context of accuracy-related underpayment penalties. Certain guidance can be used as a “sword” by the Service to assess an underpayment penalty on taxpayers based on “negligence or disregard of rules or regulations” or on preparers for “reckless or intentional disregard of rules or regulations.” Similarly, a taxpayer may be able to “shield” himself from the underpayment penalty found in I.R.C. § 6662(b)(2) by showing that there was “substantial authority” for the taxpayer’s position. It is important for taxpayers and advisors to recognize which sources fall within the definition of “rules or regulations” and which sources constitute “authority,” as well as understand how to properly conduct the “substantial authority” evaluation.

By examining IRS guidance in the context of its precedential value and judicial deference, as well as its role in the assessment and avoidance of accuracy-related penalties, this article answers the questions above and provides taxpayers with an increased familiarity with the utility and reliability of IRS interpretive guidance.

Keywords: tax, IRS Guidance, Revenue Ruling, Treasury Regulation, Revenue Procedure

Suggested Citation:

Green, Tina and Laing, Nikki, Lost in Translation: A Journey Through the Bewildering Realm of IRS Interpretive Guidance (February 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2572496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2572496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
Rules or Regulations"
Crossref
A . . Definitions
Crossref
B . . Value
, volume 18
Crossref
X Private , . . Rulings
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,177
RANK
672,864
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies