Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Different Conceptual Accounting Frameworks for Public and Private Enterprises: An Analysis of Canada's IFRS Transition and Suggestions for International Empirical Work

Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming

31 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2015

Daniel B. Thornton

Smith School of Business at Queen's University

Date Written: March 4, 2015

Abstract

Prior accounting research, coupled with demographic data relating to the current needs of financial statement users, suggests that Canada’s strategy of adopting IFRS for public firms while retaining a classic conceptual framework based on reliability, conservatism and verifiability for private enterprises is a rational strategy that confers a comparative advantage on Canada’s private enterprises relative to their peers in other countries. I propose research projects that could examine that inference as a testable hypothesis, thereby providing evidence standard setters could weigh in determining whether the strategy is worth preserving. I also explain why conservatism can co-exist with unbiased fair values of private enterprises’ equity securities and their derivatives.

Keywords: Accounting standards; private companies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Thornton, Daniel B., Different Conceptual Accounting Frameworks for Public and Private Enterprises: An Analysis of Canada's IFRS Transition and Suggestions for International Empirical Work (March 4, 2015). Accounting Perspectives, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2573944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Ray Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting and Business Research International Accounting Policy Forum , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings quality in U.K. private firms: Comparative loss recognition timeliness
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Ray Ball , Xi Li , Lakshmanan Shivakumar
Contractibility and Transparency of Financial Statement Information Prepared under IFRS: Evidence from Debt Contracts around IFRS Adoption
Journal of Accounting Research (Forthcoming), Fox School of Business Research Paper No. 15-083 Pages: 69 Posted: 15 Jun 2013 Last revised: 9 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Basu
The Conservatism Principle and the Asymmetric Timeliness of Earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,048
RANK
256,498
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies