Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Accounting Consistency: Eliminate Accrual and Depreciation, and Revamp the Tax Treatment of Borrowing

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 738

FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 15-13

39 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2015

Joseph M. Dodge

Florida State University - College of Law

Date Written: March 4, 2015

Abstract

The thesis is that inconsistent tax accounting rules undermine the individual income tax, and the best available move for improving it – given the unassailability of the realization principle - is to eliminate its accrual (and quasi-accrual) features. Specifically, the agenda is to eliminate tax accrual accounting in the conventional sense, revamp the tax treatment of borrowing to (inter alia) abolish the Crane doctrine, and eliminate depreciation deductions for indivisible productive assets. The end result would be a consistent cash realization system for (at least) individual taxpayers.

The proposals made herein would upset long-standing features of the income tax, and therefore are highly controversial. Nevertheless, these features create structural asymmetries that are systematically exploited to the advantage of taxpayers.

Part I explains why tax reform should focus on the current realization income tax, rather than ideal systems (such as an accretion income tax or personal consumption tax). Included is a defense of the realization principle on the merits. Part II considers what realization really means in a general sort of way. Part III argues that the accrual method should be abolished. Proposals for revamping the tax treatment of borrowing, including abolition of the Crane doctrine, are the subject of Part IV. The case for abolishing depreciation (with exceptions) is made in Part V, where the Samuelson model of depreciation is shown to be irrelevant to a realization income tax. Collateral changes would include, inter alia, liberalizing the repair doctrine and expensing of indirect production costs. Part VII considers the feasibility of limiting the proposed changes to the individual income tax, and Part VII is the conclusion.

Suggested Citation:

Dodge, Joseph M., Income Tax Accounting Consistency: Eliminate Accrual and Depreciation, and Revamp the Tax Treatment of Borrowing (March 4, 2015). FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 738, FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 15-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2573888 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2573888
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,060
RANK
418,383
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies