Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tax Audible: Coaches and Buyouts

Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 68, 2015

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 742

FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 15-9

6 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2015

Jeffrey H. Kahn

Harry M. Walborsky Professor, Florida State University College of Law; Associate Dean, Business Program

Date Written: March 3, 2015

Abstract

After Mack Brown resigned, the University of Texas, a school that has one of the premier football programs in the country, looked to hire a new head football coach. The school set its eyes on Charlie Strong. One roadblock was that Strong was still employed as the head football coach of the University of Louisville. In order to be released, Strong’s contract required a buyout payment from Strong to the University of Louisville for $4.375 million. The typical method of handling this has the new university employer reimburse the coach for the buyout or directly pay the buyout to the old university employer. Under those structures, many schools took the position that such payments were includible in the coach’s income for federal tax purposes. The University of Texas, however, accomplished its desired result in a seemingly unique manner that attempted to avoid the income tax issue. In this article, I will explain that this new structure does not improve the prospects for excluding the payment from the coach’s taxable income. However, this does not mean the buyout payment is taxable to the coach. Instead, I will review two independent policy justifications for not taxing the coach regardless of which structure is used.

Keywords: Football, Coach, Income, Buyout, tax

JEL Classification: H02, H20, H24, H25, H29

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Jeffrey H., A Tax Audible: Coaches and Buyouts (March 3, 2015). Vanderbilt Law Review, Vol. 68, 2015, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 742, FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 15-9, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2573084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,916
RANK
328,705
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies