Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do PCAOB Inspections Improve the Quality of Internal Control Audits?

53 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2015 Last revised: 7 Jul 2015

Mark L. DeFond

University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Clive S. Lennox

University of Southern California

Date Written: July 7, 2015

Abstract

We test whether PCAOB inspections help remediate auditors’ deficiencies in detecting and reporting material internal control weaknesses. After PCAOB inspectors report higher rates of internal control audit deficiencies, we find that auditors respond by increasing their issuance of adverse internal control audit opinions. We also find that the increased adverse internal control opinions are issued to clients that genuinely warrant such opinions, and are not simply the result of auditors becoming more conservative in their reporting practices. Finally, we find that higher inspection deficiency rates also lead to higher audit fees. Taken together, our results are consistent with critical inspection reports prompting auditors to perform more rigorous tests and evaluations of their clients’ internal controls. Overall, our findings suggest that PCAOB inspections improve the quality of internal control audits through their ability to remediate deficiencies in auditors’ internal control audit procedures.

Keywords: PCAOB inspections; internal controls

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

DeFond, Mark and Lennox, Clive, Do PCAOB Inspections Improve the Quality of Internal Control Audits? (July 7, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574506 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2574506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
J Krishnan , J Krishnan , H Song
PCAOB international inspections and audit quality. Working paper Posted: 2014
Crossref
Phillip T. Lamoreaux
Does PCAOB Inspection Access Improve Audit Quality? An Examination of Foreign Firms Listed in the United States
Pages: 55 Posted: 2 Apr 2013 Last revised: 4 Nov 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Lennox , J Pitttman
Auditing the auditors: Evidence on the recent reforms to the external monitoring of audit firms
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 49 , p. 84 - 103 Posted: 2010
Crossref
C Lennox , J Pitttman
Voluntary audits and mandatory audits
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , p. 1655 - 16378 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
903
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,199
RANK
60,279
71 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies