Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Auditors’ Perceptions of Their Role in Environmental, Social and Governance Assurance and Consulting

Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 30 Iss: 1, pp. 80-111

39 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2015

Dominic Canestrari-Soh

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Nonna Martinov-Bennie

Macquarie University - Faculty of Business and Economics; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Date Written: March 10, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to investigate the nature and extent of internal audit functions’ (IAFs) involvement in environmental, social and governance assurance (ESG) and consulting in Australia. To identify emerging priorities, and the profession’s capacity to respond to these, the paper also explores internal audit practitioners’ perceptions of the current and future importance of these issues and the adequacy of their skills and expertise in meeting the challenges associated with their involvement in these areas.

Design/methodology/approach: Data were collected from 100 Chief Audit Executives and internal audit service provider partners through a survey.

Findings: Governance issues are a key area of focus for respondents’ assurance and consulting efforts, followed by social and environmental issues, respectively. While governance issues are perceived to be of greatest current importance to IAFs, environmental issues are most commonly expected to increase in importance over the next five years, and are reported to be in greatest need of further development of IAFs’ skills and expertise.

Research limitations/implications: As the corporate landscape and expectations around transparency and accountability increase, the internal audit profession needs to address the current perceived skills gap in their ability to provide assurance and consulting on ESG issues to ensure their continued relevance and ability to meet stakeholders’ needs and expectations in providing effective integrated assurance and in contributing to internal improvements.

Originality/value: This paper provides initial empirical evidence of the nature and extent of internal audit’s involvement in ESG assurance and consulting.

Keywords: Sustainability, Environmental, social and governance assurance, Internal audit

Suggested Citation:

Canestrari-Soh, Dominic and Martinov-Bennie, Nonna, Internal Auditors’ Perceptions of Their Role in Environmental, Social and Governance Assurance and Consulting (March 10, 2015). Managerial Auditing Journal, Vol. 30 Iss: 1, pp. 80-111, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2576567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams , G R Frost
Integrating sustainability reporting into management practices
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 288 - 302 Posted: 2008
Crossref
M Allegrini , G D&apos;onza , R Melville , G Sarens , G M Selim
What's Next for Internal Auditing?, The IIA'S Global Internal Audit Survey: A Component of the CBOK Study, The Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation Posted: 2011
M Allegrini , G Greco
Corporate boards, audit committees and voluntary disclosure: evidence from Italian Listed Companies
Journal of Management & Governance , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
6 Citations
Aija Jokipii , Fabrizio Di Meo
Internal Audit Function Characteristics and External Auditors' Co‐Sourcing in Different Institutional Contexts
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 23, Issue 2, pp. 292-307, 2019 · 16 Pages · Posted: 22 May 2020 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Xin Liu , Wei Li , Kristine Parsons
Exploring the Antecedents of Internal Auditors' Voice in Environmental Issues: Implications from China
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 24, Issue 3, pp. 396-411, 2020 · 16 Pages · Posted: 6 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 14
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Saddam A Hazaea , Jinyu Zhu , Saleh F. A. Khatib , Ayman Hassan Bazhair , Ahmed Ahmed Elamer
Sustainability Assurance Practices: A Systematic Review and Future Research Agenda
Environmental Science and Pollution Research, 2021 · 39 Pages · Posted: 2 Nov 2021 · Last revised: 27 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 168
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Hay , Nava Subramaniam , Laura Sierra-García , Mike Kend
Sustainability Assurance and Provider Choice: A Meta-Analysis
35 Pages · Posted: 11 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 235
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,725
RANK
121,135
6 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies