Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the 'Smart Return' to Reduce Tax Evasion

Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 2578432

23 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2015

Joseph Bankman

Stanford Law School

Clifford Nass

Stanford University

Joel B. Slemrod

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: March 14, 2015

Abstract

Tax evasion costs government over 400 billion dollars a year. We suggest enforcement efforts can be strengthened by redesigning the tax return to take advantage of social psychology research, and industry experience with data-driven systems. To illustrate the potential of this approach, in this paper we propose three categories of changes that merit testing through pilot studies. The first involves changing the wording on existing returns to increase the psychological cost of evasion and increase the perceived expectation of detection. The second builds appeals to morality in the return itself through the use of a short phrase containing a "self-relevant" noun. The third uses on-line "conversational agents" to ask adaptive questions.

Keywords: tax evasion, tax evasion costs, tax returns, government, social psychology research, data-driven systems, merit testing, pilot studies, tax return wording, psychological cost of tax evasion, perceived expectation of detection, morality, self-relevant noun, on-line conversational agents, adaptive que

JEL Classification: H02, H26, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Bankman, Joseph and Nass, Clifford and Slemrod, Joel B., Using the 'Smart Return' to Reduce Tax Evasion (March 14, 2015). Stanford Public Law Working Paper No. 2578432, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2578432 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2578432
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Joel B. Slemrod
Tax Compliance and Enforcement: New Research and Its Policy Implications
Ross School of Business Paper No. 1302 · 85 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2016 · Last revised: 17 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 1,248
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Yeliz Kacamak
Tax Enforcement with Somewhat Honest Taxpayers
23 Pages · Posted: 29 Apr 2019 · Downloads: 47
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C. Cipollini
A Systematic Introduction to Tax and Technology
International Tax Studies , volume 5 , issue 3 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Florin Cornel Dumiter
THE CORRELATION BETWEEN DOUBLE TAXATION CONVENTIONS, TAX COMPLIANCE, AND TAX EVASION. EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE FROM OECD COUNTRIES
Technological and Economic Development of Economy , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 902 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
966
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,405
RANK
54,933
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Stanford Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Criminal Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies