Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Resolution of Audit-Detected Misstatements

Journal of Applied Accounting Research 20 (1), 41-62

ESCP Business School Research Paper

Posted: 19 Mar 2015 Last revised: 12 Nov 2019

Klaus Ruhnke

Freie Universitaet Berlin - Department of Finance, Accounting and Taxation

Martin Schmidt

ESCP Business School, Department of Financial Reporting & Audit

Date Written: February 28, 2019

Abstract

The value of an audit lies in its ability to detect and correct misstatements in financial statements. This study investigates the resolution of detected misstatements. Using data on a large sample of audit adjustments by a German Big 4 audit firm, this paper reports an analysis of the factors that influence the resolution of detected misstatements. In contrast to prior studies, we analyze the resolution of misstatements at the engagement level and the level of the individual adjustment. This design makes a methodological contribution by expanding the level of analysis of auditors’ book-or-waive decisions to include the engagement level. It further allows examining offsetting effects of different adjustments on client income, as well as the number and the total amount of detected adjustments. We find that the auditor’s book-or-waive decision is influenced by client characteristics and characteristics of the audit adjustments that can be linked to client as well as auditor incentives to oppose (require) the recording of adjustments. Offsetting effects of the detected adjustments on client income play a key role in auditors’ decisions. The findings suggest that standard-setters and audit practice should give more attention to the offsetting effects of audit adjustments on income. Our analyses at the two different levels could help practitioners to better structure their book-or-waive decisions.

Keywords: Audit adjustments, Audit differences, Audit risk model, International Standards on Auditing, Materiality, Waived adjustments

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Ruhnke, Klaus and Schmidt, Martin, The Resolution of Audit-Detected Misstatements (February 28, 2019). Journal of Applied Accounting Research 20 (1), 41-62, ESCP Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2580084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2580084
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies