Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Legal Implications of the Economic Realities of Artificially Manipulating a Decrease/Increase of Earnings Per Share - If Any

Potchefstroom Electronic Law Journal, Vol. 17, No. 6, 2014

31 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2015

Cornelius G. Kilian

University of the Free State

Elizabeth Snyman-Van Deventer

University of the Free State - Faculty of Law

Date Written: December 30, 2014

Abstract

Although probably oversimplified, calculating "earnings per share" or the "earnings-per-share ratio" entails the activity of dividing the net profit of a company by the number of its issued shares. The economic reality is that companies may use innovation and creativity to lawfully engineer a better earnings-per-share ratio in order to attract more shareholder investments. Neither the Companies Act of 1973 nor that of 2008 makes any provision for the maximum or minimum amount of capital required to float a company, or the minimum number of shares that should be issued. This depends solely on the promoters' discretion of the number of shares that must equal the capital amount. It is therefore possible that the promoters may excessively exercise their discretion when deciding on the authorised share capital, and later tailor-make or financially engineer the share capital structure of the business to make it attractive to shareholders or future shareholders. After all, the law does not prohibit statutory financial engineering. The purpose of this article is therefore to consider section 75 in the Companies Act of 1973 - or its equivalent (section 36(2)) in the Companies Act of 2008 - and the topic of statutory approval for an artificial decrease or increase in the number of issued shares. Possible methods of preventing or limiting artificial increases in earnings per share are also suggested.

Keywords: earnings per share, earnings-per-share ratio, Companies Act, economic reality, financial engineering, share capital structure

Suggested Citation:

Kilian, Cornelius G. and Snyman-Van Deventer, Elizabeth, The Legal Implications of the Economic Realities of Artificially Manipulating a Decrease/Increase of Earnings Per Share - If Any (December 30, 2014). Potchefstroom Electronic Law Journal, Vol. 17, No. 6, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2581515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Brews PJ Towards a More Appropriate Take-over Regulation in South Africa (PhD thesis University of Witwatersrand 1990) Briggs 1981 De Rebus Briggs D "The Purchase by a Company of its Own Shares Posted: 1981
SA Merc LJ Posted: 1998
Crossref
Fhi Cassim
The Rise, the Fall and the Reform of the Ultra Vires Doctrine
SA Merc LJ , volume 293 Posted: 1998
SALJ Cassim FHI "The Reform of Company Law and the Capital Maintenance Concept
Cassim , p. 283 - 293 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
985
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies