Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Professional Accountants in Business: Perspectives from a Developing Country

20 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2015

Erick Rading Outa

Charles Darwin University

Date Written: June 01, 2012

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to assess the role, opportunities and challenges of Professional Accountants in Business (PAIB) within the context of global frameworks and the future of Accounting in Business. Models by International Federation of Accountants (IFAC’s), Association of Chartered Certified Accountant’s (ACCA) Value Creation Model and Pricewaterhousecoopers Standard Finance Model 2011 were applied on data collected by questionnaire from Accountants registered by Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK).

From a sample of 362 Accountants the findings revealed that only 33.7% are involved in business strategy to the extent of 60-100 % against global average extent of 79%.

The current baseline study offers the first academic insight in Kenya on the roles and provides evidence that Kenyan PAIB’s are not as involved in business strategy as their counterparts in other parts of the world. Professional accounting institutes and their global partners, regulators, boards, and the government can therefore redefine the roles of accountants from insights of this study.

Keywords: Professional Accountants in Business (PAIB), Value Creation Model (ACCA), Standard Finance Model (PWC), Kenya

JEL Classification: F30, G15, G18, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Outa, Erick Rading, Professional Accountants in Business: Perspectives from a Developing Country (June 01, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2583756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2583756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Ifac
Professional Accountants in Business Strategy and Work Plan , p. 2010 - 2012 Posted: 2010
Ifac
the crucial roles of Professional Accountants in Business in Mid Size Enterprises Posted: 2008
Ifac
Maximizing people power: Effective Talent Management in Finance
The Roles and Domain of the Professional Accountants in Business. New York: Professional Accountants in Business Published by PAIB committee KPMG and ACCA Posted: 2005
J Mcfie
The Chief Financial Officer: a leader, not a bean-counter
The Edge, Business Daily Posted: 2007-10-26
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
636,031
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies