Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restricting Non-Audit Services in Europe – The Potential (Lack of) Impact of a Blacklist and a Fee Cap On Auditor Independence and Audit Quality

Accounting in Europe, a Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2015

Nicole V.S. Ratzinger-Sakel

University of Hamburg

Martin Schoenberger

Ulm University

Date Written: March 25, 2015

Abstract

The European audit reform aims to stabilize financial markets by enhancing trust in the statutory audit. To strengthen auditor independence and to increase audit quality the provision of non-audit services to audit clients is further restricted. The supranational introduction of a blacklist, including prohibited non-audit services, and of a cap on the volume of non-audit fees is a novelty on the European level. The purpose of this paper is threefold. First, we analyze these measures in light of both current national restrictions of non-audit services and auditor fee disclosure requirements in France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Second, we assess the potential impact of the cap on the volume of non-audit services by providing descriptive evidence on current fee levels in these three countries. Third, we critically assess the impact of the audit reform regarding non-audit services in light of audit research by analyzing the state-of-the-art. On this basis, we doubt whether the European reform of auditor-provided non-audit services is effective and efficient. The main goal of enhancing perceived auditor independence and, thus, public trust in audited financial statements of public-interest entities may be hardly achieved and the blacklist might present a tradeoff between auditor independence and audit quality.

Keywords: audit quality, auditor independence, audit market regulation, auditor remuneration, non-audit services

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Ratzinger-Sakel, Nicole V.S. and Schoenberger, Martin, Restricting Non-Audit Services in Europe – The Potential (Lack of) Impact of a Blacklist and a Fee Cap On Auditor Independence and Audit Quality (March 25, 2015). Accounting in Europe, a Journal of the European Accounting Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2584987
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
118 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Fees, Nonaudit Fees, and Audit Committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
The Association between Audit Committee Characteristics and Audit Fees , volume 22 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Audit, nonaudit, and information technology fees: Some empirical evidence
Accounting and the Public Interest , volume 3 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Etude relative aux honoraires verses aux commissaires aux comptes et à leur réseau au titre de la période 2013 par les groups du CAC 40, de l'EURO STOXX 50 et d'un échantillon de 40 sociétés des compartiments B et C d'Euronext
AMF Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,558
RANK
119,460
3 Citations
118 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies