Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Believing in Life After Loving: IRS Regulation of Tax Preparers

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 17, No. 5, 2015

34 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2015 Last revised: 1 Apr 2015

Alex Levy

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 26, 2015

Abstract

Nearly anyone can be a tax preparer. There is no test to pass or code of ethics to follow. With few barriers to entry, the field of tax preparation has drawn unscrupulous players, many of whom prey on low-income families who claim the earned-income tax credit. In 2011, the IRS endeavored to regulate the anything-goes world of tax preparation. But a group of small-government activists at the Institute for Justice challenged the IRS’s regulations in federal court. And they won. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit struck down the regulations as beyond the I.R.S.’s authority under section 330 of Title 31 of the United States Code. In the wake of that decision, Loving v. IRS, the only path forward for advocates of taxpayer protection is for Congress to explicitly empower the IRS to regulate swindlers posing as tax professionals.

This Article is, fundamentally, a story of political and judicial failure in the age of small government absolutism. In a different era, federal oversight of unscrupulous tax preparers would have represented the blandest kind of common sense. But the Institute for Justice was able to convince a panel of judges on what is widely regarded as the second most influential court in the country that IRS oversight of tax preparers is unlawful. The government’s litigation strategy proved bumbling and ill-considered; it was easily outmaneuvered by its ideologically-driven adversary.

In the Article, I provide background on the IRS regulations and the process by which they were developed; I detail the pervasive fraud and incompetence that motivated the IRS to act; I explore the Institute for Justice’s push to invalidate the regulations in court, and I look at the arguments it made outside the courtroom; I evaluate the state-level experience with tax preparer regulations to see what can be learned from these “laboratories of democracy”; and, finally, I discuss how to proceed in the aftermath of Loving.

Suggested Citation:

Levy, Alex, Believing in Life After Loving: IRS Regulation of Tax Preparers (March 26, 2015). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 17, No. 5, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2585595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Olson
Crossref
See Preparer Review
Crossref
Bob Cusack
Commissioners' amicus brief, supra note 49, at 11. 115. Internal Revenue Service, Data Book
IRS commissioner doesn't file his own taxes, THE HILL, Briefing Room Blog Posted: 2010-01-11
Commissioners' amicus brief, supra note 49 Posted: 2013-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
238,435
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies