Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Withholding Taxes in the Service of BEPS Action 1: Address the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy

33 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2015

Yariv Brauner

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Andres Baez Moreno

Charles III University of Madrid

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 2, 2015

Abstract

This position paper provides possible solutions to the challenges presented to the international tax regime by the digital economy. It considers the option of installing a broad withholding mechanism based upon the base erosion principle both as a primary response to these challenges or in support of a new nexus-based solution.

Keywords: Tax, International Taxation, withholding tax, BEPS, digital economy, ecommerce taxation, nexus, base erosion, tax reform

JEL Classification: K34, K33

Suggested Citation:

Brauner, Yariv and Baez Moreno, Andres, Withholding Taxes in the Service of BEPS Action 1: Address the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy (February 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2586202 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2586202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,618
RANK
9,060
7 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies