Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inflation Accounting: More Questions than Answers

International Journal of Management, IT and Engineering, Volume 5, Issue 3 ISSN: 2249-0558 March 2015

15 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2015

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Muhaheranwa Benjamin

Maharishi Markendeshwar Group of Institution - Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MMU)

Dorothee Mukakibibi

Kampala International University in Tanzania (KIUT)

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

The sole responsibility of accounting is to present what has transpired within a given period through reporting not what should have occurred or will occur. Despite fitting correctly into the definition of reporting business event, historical cost accounting in recent times has come under heavy criticism of lacking behind economic trends due to the use of original cost. Historical cost accounting has been challenge on principles of uniform monetary measure and matching concepts. These growing dissatisfaction with historical cost accounting as a method of reporting financial statements has made it necessary to consider alternative method which is accounting for price level changes. Unfortunately, this alternative has not been put to practice due to its unattractiveness. It is against this background that this paper attempts to discuss some novel questions with recommendations about the existing inflation accounting methods. Aside the traditional disadvantages of inflation accounting, this article have critically examine the restatement of items under inflation accounting against basic accounting, economics and finance principles. In addition the novel questions have been raised on the consistency and rationale behind the treatment of certain items under price level changes accounting. The article argues that, inflation accounting is not only inconsistent with accounting principles but also with related subjects such as economics and finance. In practice inflation accounting creates illusionary or imaginary profit which does not exist, thus capital maintenance concept is just a paper theory because much of the profit under inflation accounting is unrealised or holding gain Inflation accounting distorts the basic objective of reporting what happen within a period or at specific time. The greatest deterrent to adoption of price level changes accounting is what it is not: inflation accounting is not present value, net realizable value, or current market values or fair value and therein lies much of the opposition to its use. In line with these questions, the article recommends that, inflation accounting can only be meaningful with new accounting system since the existing system is based on historical cost accounting.

Keywords: Inflation Accounting, historical accounting, GPPA and CCA

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent and Benjamin, Muhaheranwa and Mukakibibi, Dorothee, Inflation Accounting: More Questions than Answers (March 1, 2015). International Journal of Management, IT and Engineering, Volume 5, Issue 3 ISSN: 2249-0558 March 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2592883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2592883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
David solomons, making Accounting Policy
Eldon S Hendrikson , Accounting Theory , ; Howeword , D Richard , Irwin
Posted: 1982
Crossref
Financial Reporting and Changing Prices
Financial Accounting Standards Board , volume 33 Posted: 1979
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No. 16 Current Cost Accounting (SSAP16) Posted: 1977
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
517
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,172
RANK
124,535
2 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies