Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implied Materiality and Material Disclosures of Credit Ratings

Harvard Business School General Management Unit Working Paper No. 15-079

21 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2015

Robert G. Eccles

University of Oxford - Said Business School

Timothy Youmans

Consultant; Morgan Stanley - Calvert Research and Management; Hermes Investment Management Limited - EOS at Federated Hermes; CECP; Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management; Harvard Business School; High Meadows Institute; Harvard University, Harvard Kennedy School (HKS)

Date Written: April 9, 2015

Abstract

This first of three papers in our series on materiality in credit ratings will examine the materiality of credit ratings from an “implied materiality” and governance disclosure perspective. In the second paper, we will explore the materiality of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit ratings’ methodologies and introduce the concept of “layered materiality.” In the third paper, we will evaluate current and potential credit rating agency (CRA) business models based on our analysis in the previous papers, and introduce the concept of “institutionalized materiality.” Starting with this paper, and in the rest of the series, we will also recommend how the credit rating model can be enhanced in the coming years to help build more sustainable credit markets.

This first paper is focused on the “G” (governance) component of ESG reporting. The governance matters we identify in this paper must be addressed before turning our attention to the broader set of ESG considerations in credit ratings. Failure to put these important governance matters at the top of the credit ratings reform agenda would, in our opinion, undermine the efforts we will recommend in our second and third papers.

Suggested Citation:

Eccles, Robert G. and Youmans, Timothy, Implied Materiality and Material Disclosures of Credit Ratings (April 9, 2015). Harvard Business School General Management Unit Working Paper No. 15-079, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2592630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2592630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Fifty percent of Fitch Ratings parent, the Fitch Group, is owned by the Hearst Corporation, which is private, and 50% is owned by Fimalac, a French firm that has 12% of its shares held by the public on the Euronext Paris stock exchange, with the balance of Fimalac's shares controlled by a private entity
its SEC NRSRO filings, Fitch claims that its ratings are independent Posted: 2015-04-06
Timothy Martin
Moody's Shares Fall on Reports of DoJ Probe
Wall Street Journal, Moneybeat Online Posted: 2015-02-02
PricewaterhouseCoopers was the company's auditor from 2004 through 2007. 42 KPMG was its auditor for the period Posted: 2008
The Settlement (see note 32) aggregated the Department of Justice lawsuit with the separate lawsuits by 19 states and the District of Columbia against McGraw Hill, in addition to the now settled lawsuit by
Load more
1 Citations
Pablo Rodríguez-Gutiérrez , Carmen Correa , Carlos Larrinaga
Is integrated reporting transformative?
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 617 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
351
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,903
RANK
195,180
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies