Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expansion of the Profit-Split Method: The Wave of the Future

7 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2015

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: March 30, 2015

Abstract

Recognizing the reality that multinational corporations are centrally managed and not groups of entities that operate independently of one another, the OECD base erosion and profit-shifting project is considering expanded use of the profit-split method. This article provides background on why expanded use of the profit-split method is sorely needed. In particular, resource-constrained tax authorities in many countries are unable to administer or intelligently analyze and contest transfer pricing results presented by multinational groups. Most importantly, this article suggests a simplified profit-split approach using set concrete and objective allocation keys for commonly used business models that should be welcomed by multinational groups and tax authorities alike.

Keywords: BEPS, Transfer Pricing, TP, International Taxation

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., Expansion of the Profit-Split Method: The Wave of the Future (March 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2593548 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2593548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Johannes Becker , Joachim Englisch , Deborah Schanz
Re-Allocation of Taxing Rights for Big Data Business Models
32 Pages · Posted: 11 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 644
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sol Picciotto
Technocracy in the Era of Twitter. Between Intergovernmentalism and Supranational Technocratic Politics in Global Tax Governance
25 Pages · Posted: 13 May 2020 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
540
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,092
RANK
118,061
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies