Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
REIT Spinoffs: Passive REITs, Active Businesses

Tax Notes, p. 1513 & 1635, March 23 & 30, 2015

42 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2015 Last revised: 21 Apr 2015

Richard Nugent

Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

This report argues that traditional REIT spinoffs are fairly well supported by current law and that the common criticisms of these transactions generally miss the mark. It concludes that (1) Treasury and the IRS over time have adopted a fairly comprehensive definition of real property for REIT purposes, and the current ruling practice reflects an application of this preexisting standard to contemporary circumstances; (2) although Congress has repeatedly expanded the scope of a REIT group’s permitted activities, REITs remain largely restricted from running non-real-estate businesses; (3) based on available information, REIT spinoffs are not a tremendous drain on government revenues, may provide important benefits, and are likely worth their relatively small cost to the fisc; and (4) if properly structured, REIT spinoffs generally should satisfy section 355 and do not contravene the underlying policies of that section.

Keywords: real estate investment trust, REIT, REIT spinoff, REIT spin-off, REIT conversion

JEL Classification: K34, K20, K00, H25, H20, E62, L10

Suggested Citation:

Nugent, Richard, REIT Spinoffs: Passive REITs, Active Businesses (2015). Tax Notes, p. 1513 & 1635, March 23 & 30, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2595823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Iron Mountain has reported that it incurred $180 million to $185 million in initial conversion costs, and it expects to spend $15 million annually on ongoing REIT compliance costs. See Iron Mountain Inc
to REIT status and monitoring ongoing compliance with the REIT rules thereafter generally are expensive exercises. For instance Posted: 2012-12
Current America , A Report ; Martin , Sullivan
Then-CEO of Penn National, Peter Carlino, apparently stated of the company's REIT spinoff: ''The pain was unimaginable, and I really do not overstate that. It was the most difficult thing we have ever done. . . . I can't overemphasize the complexity Posted: 2012
H R See , Rep
, volume 86 Posted: 1960
See Part 1, Section II.C
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,674
RANK
461,979
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies