Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Convergence of Accounting Standards

7 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2015

Boon Seng Tan

Nanyang Technological University - Nanyang Centre for Public Administration

Date Written: April 20, 2015

Abstract

The initiative towards the convergence of accounting standards driven by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) appears un-stopable. This paper first examines why having a set of national accounting standards is valuable. However, the underlying accounting model at the national level means that the logic may not extend to de facto convergence and the debate is played out as debates on implementation issues and fair value accounting. If de jure convergence materializes, International accounting faculty will need to shift their teaching and research focus from the differences in national standards to the differences in implementing a set of international standards.

Keywords: Convergence, Fair Value Accounting, International Accounting Standards Board, Accounting Theory

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Boon Seng, On the Convergence of Accounting Standards (April 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2596957 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2596957
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors. Accounting & Business Research , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
S Botzem
The Politics of Accounting Regulation: Organizing Transnational Standard Setting in Financial Reporting Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Glaum
Bridging the GAAP: The changing attitude of German managers towards AngloAmerican accounting and accounting harmonization
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , issue 11 , p. 23 - 47 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,846
RANK
267,661
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies