Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs of Compliance and Associated Benefits for Small and Medium Enterprises in New Zealand: Some Recent Findings

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015

44 Pages Posted: 23 Apr 2015

Ranjana Gupta

Auckland University of Technology

Adrian J. Sawyer

University of Canterbury

Date Written: November 11, 2014

Abstract

This study reports the results of an investigation of the tax compliance cost burden for New Zealand small and medium enterprises (SMEs). It is one part of a larger international project (across five countries), which is evaluating and comparing tax compliance costs affecting SMEs. This study differentiates tax compliance activities from core accounting activities in order to identify the managerial benefits of tax compliance. It also investigates whether various New Zealand SME tax concessions are perceived to be achieving their objective of relieving the tax compliance burden for SMEs.

To determine New Zealand SMEs’ tax compliance cost burden, an online survey was conducted during the period of late 2012 to early 2013. The New Zealand results reinforce prior studies that tax compliance costs, as well as core accounting costs, are regressive with respect to business size, with the compliance burden being proportionately greater for smaller businesses. It was also found that a majority of the respondents perceived significant managerial benefits in tax compliance for their business. The findings reveal that the respondents seemed to be unaware of the eligibility rules for the various small business tax concessions. Overall, the survey results concerning the SME tax concessions cast some doubt as to whether they fulfil their objective of simplification of the tax system for SMEs.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Ranjana and Sawyer, Adrian J, The Costs of Compliance and Associated Benefits for Small and Medium Enterprises in New Zealand: Some Recent Findings (November 11, 2014). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 30, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2597934
Purchase - $45
11 References
Ibid
Crossref
Ibid
Crossref
P Lignier , C Evans
The rise and rise of tax compliance costs for the small business sector in Australia
Australian Tax Forum , volume 27 , issue 3 Posted: 2012
P Lignier
The managerial benefits of tax compliance: an empirical study of small businesses in regional Australia
Tax administration: safe harbours and new horizons Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
17
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,689
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies