Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Burgers, Doughnuts, and Expatriations: An Analysis of the Tax Inversion Epidemic and a Solution Presented Through the Lens of the Burger King-Tim Hortons Merger

William & Mary Business Law Review, Volume 7 (March 2016)

30 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2015 Last revised: 22 Jul 2016

Chris Capurso

College of William and Mary, Marshall-Wythe School of Law, Students

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

One of the major corporate phenomena currently is the idea of tax inversion. In the United States, companies pay taxes on all earnings, whether they were accumulated in this country or not. With one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world, this is a major expense for U.S. corporations. Most companies simply deal with the tax burden. However, some U.S. corporations buy foreign companies and relocate the company headquarters to that specific country. This corporate expatriation allows companies to avoid U.S. taxes on earnings in a number of ways. This Note will examine tax inversion through the lens of the recently announced Burger King – Tim Hortons merger and the impending expatriation of the American burger purveyor from Florida to Canada. In particular, this note will (1) examine why tax inversions have come about, (2) look at how politicians and academics have thought to attack the problem, (3) analyze the intricacies of the Burger King-Tim Hortons merger, and (4) propose a new solution that would actually curtail tax inversions and corporate expatriations within the United States.

Keywords: tax, inversion, expatriation, corporate, Burger King, Tim Hortons, earnings stripping, hopscotch loans, American Jobs Creation Act, marginal tax rate

Suggested Citation:

Capurso, Chris, Burgers, Doughnuts, and Expatriations: An Analysis of the Tax Inversion Epidemic and a Solution Presented Through the Lens of the Burger King-Tim Hortons Merger (March 1, 2016). William & Mary Business Law Review, Volume 7 (March 2016), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2598130
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Tiffany Hsu
Wendy's dethrones Burger King as second-biggest burger chain Posted: 2012-03-20
Chris Nichols
At McDonald's despair, at Chipotle arrogance, YAHOO! FIN , volume 3 Posted: 2014-10-22
3G Capital Acquisition of
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,594
RANK
228,448
1 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies