Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Regulation: The Key Factor to Credible Financial Reporting in Nigeria

46 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2015

Comrade Kalu Nnanna Nwonyuku

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: December 6, 2012

Abstract

The fundamental cause of financial markets meltdown in the global economy is the persistent deterioration of corporate governance regulation that results to poor financial reporting quality. The continuous business failures occasioned by irresponsible corporate governance and low financial reporting quality undoubtedly has triggered a serious threat to the Nigerian economy. The perceived high profile-financial scandals have become a major source of concern, and “galvanized considerable interest in and discussion” on the imperative of “corporate governance in the financial reporting process.” Besides the shareholders prospect being damned, the confidence of other stakeholders is lost on the pages of window-dressed financial reports of the entity. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was passed by the U.S. congress in response to preventing the reoccurrence of financial scandals; “to reinforce corporate accountability and professional responsibilities, and to rebuild investor confidence.”

Also to this direction, is the introduction of Code of Corporate Governance for Public Companies in Nigeria by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 2011 and Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria Act of 2011, enacted to harmonize activities of relevant professional and regulatory bodies with regard to ensuring effective corporate governance and credible financial reporting. It is therefore pertinent to guard against the possible causes of sudden corporate failure particularly in Nigeria. While “taking Nigeria’s peculiar institutional configurations into consideration”, aims at critically evaluating the Nigerian corporate governance nature, roles and structure in designing financial information system and to explore how the corporate governance functions can be strategically harnessed to ensuring corporate vitality and prevent manipulations in financial reporting. This paper is purported to “prioritize the long-term health of firms and their shareholders” and to create more long-term stability and profitability within the corporations that are so vital to the health, well-being, and prosperity of the global economy. This study thus, tends to investigate the relationship between corporate governance and financial reporting quality towards restoring the public confidence that can help in creating long term corporate value. The study builds upon legal, regulatory and theoretical framework of corporate governance and financial reporting, analyzing the roles of those charged with governance and how they affect the financial reporting system of the entity. The paper dwells more on corporate governance because it believes that the quality of financial reporting depends largely on the quality of corporate governance of the firm. In the course, four research questions are raised: Does the quality of corporate governance affect the financial reporting quality? Does any relationship exist between corporate governance and audit fees for quality assurance on financial statements? Do the corporate governance codes and regulations matter in ensuring responsible corporate governance and credible financial reporting? Is there any correlation between corporate reputation and quality of financial reporting of the company? Using descriptive and historical study approach, the findings support previous studies which show that financial reporting quality can be strengthened and improved in the face of effective corporate governance. The study also observes that by providing the regulatory documents and ample of governance codes do not connote sound corporate governance and quality financial reporting. This is because corporate governance begins and ends in Boardroom. Also, companies with corporate reputational concern tend to have high drive for good corporate governance which construes in having quality financial reporting. While concludes that a wake-up call for Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria will help to promote credible financial reporting, the paper recommends among others the need to ensure elaborate, comprehensive and simple financial statements content; legislative provision for easy and timely accessibility of financial records to all responsible stakeholders.

Keywords: Corporate governance, financial reporting quality, Board of Directors, shareholders, audit committee, regulation and credibility

Suggested Citation:

Nnanna Nwonyuku, Comrade Kalu, Corporate Governance Regulation: The Key Factor to Credible Financial Reporting in Nigeria (December 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2600221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2600221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
E Adegbite
Corporate Governance Regulation in Nigeria
Corporate Governance , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 257 - 276 Posted: 2012
Crossref
O Akinsulire
A Statement of Basic Accounting Theory Posted: 1966
R C Baker , P Wallage
The Future of Financial Reporting in Europe: Its Role in Corporate Governance
International Journal of Accounting , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 173 - 187 Posted: 2000
Crossref
M S Beasley
An Empirical Analysis of the Relation between the Boards of Director Composition and Financial Statement Fraud
The Accounting Review , p. 443 - 466 Posted: 1996-10
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,562
RANK
200,226
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies