Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whose Goodwill is it? The Taxation of Goodwill in Owner-Entity Transactions

Journal of Taxation, Vol. 122, No. 2, p. 74 (2015)

17 Pages Posted: 2 May 2015 Last revised: 5 May 2015

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: February 1, 2015

Abstract

Goodwill is a nebulous concept that is often not handled properly by taxpayers or the IRS. Two recent Tax Court cases highlight the IRS’s flawed approach and methodology to goodwill in two particular situations: the effect of goodwill in a corporate distribution, and the effect of goodwill in the estate-tax valuation of a closely held business. In both cases, the IRS used goodwill valuations to assert deficiencies against taxpayers, but the taxpayers argued that the goodwill was not theirs personally and therefore did not give rise to the deficiencies. These cases provide guidance on how to structure and maintain the ownership of goodwill in these and other contexts, e.g., the sale of a professional practice. A robust and clear understanding of the taxation of goodwill, therefore, is paramount in deal structuring. This article discusses the importance of handling the goodwill analysis properly and highlights the salient contexts in which goodwill issues arise. The article then notes a two-step approach to handling goodwill issues and offers strategies to maximize the tax benefits associated with goodwill. The planning strategies offered here reduce aggregate federal taxes paid and thus increase a transaction’s rate of return.

Keywords: tax, goodwill, IRS, tax planning, corporate tax, going concern value, business valuation, taxation, personal goodwill

JEL Classification: K39, K1, K22, K29, K34, K41, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Todd, Timothy M., Whose Goodwill is it? The Taxation of Goodwill in Owner-Entity Transactions (February 1, 2015). Journal of Taxation, Vol. 122, No. 2, p. 74 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2600984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2600984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,024
RANK
224,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies