Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Internal Auditors in the Management of Nigerian Public Sector Organizations: A Study of National Hospital, Abuja

22 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2015

Comrade Kalu Nnanna Nwonyuku

Federal Inland Revenue Service

Date Written: April 28, 2015

Abstract

The role of internal auditors in the management of Nigerian public sector organizations has warranted special attention over time by different fields of knowledge. It has been argued that internal auditors have no space in Nigerian public organizations, while some proponents counter the view strongly. However, this study is of the belief that internal auditors immensely assist management of public sector organizations in ensuring and maintaining adequate internal control system and promoting operational efficiency in organizations. They have been described as that part of management that add value to organizations. The objective of this paper is to examine the functions of internal auditors in the management of Nigerian government-owned organizations with reference to National Hospital, Abuja (NHA). This is necessary particularly at this era where government is requiring all its agencies, parastatals, ministries and extra-ministerial departments at all levels to demonstrate a high sense of accountability, probity and transparency in the running of the government businesses and towards ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness of the scarce resources at their disposal. This paper employs descriptive approach of investigation. The finding from the study suggests that internal auditor’s functions have significant relationship with the management of Nigerian public organizations with reference to NHA. By implication, the roles of internal auditors can help to improve quality healthcare delivery in National Hospital, Abuja. This work concludes that where management will continuously empower the internal auditors, the overall operational efficiency of Nigerian public sector organization will improve. Further empirical research on this theme will not only add more value in explaining the internal auditor’s role in managing government-owned organizations but also expand the horizon of academic literature.

Keywords: Audit, Auditing, Internal Audit, Internal Auditors, Management, Internal Control system, Internal check, External Auditors, Public Sector Organizations

Suggested Citation:

Nnanna Nwonyuku, Comrade Kalu, The Role of Internal Auditors in the Management of Nigerian Public Sector Organizations: A Study of National Hospital, Abuja (April 28, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2600131 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2600131
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
M S ; G A Badara , Bauchi State
The Role of Internal Auditors in Ensuring Effective Financial Control At Local Government Level: The Case of Alkaleri L
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 57 - 65 Posted: 2012
A O Enofe
The Role of Internal Audit in Effective Management in Public Sector
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 6 , p. 162 - 168 Posted: 2013
H Fayol
Available on: www.fmf.gov.ng Federal Republic of Nigeria (1999). Constitution. The Federal Government Printer. Federal Republic of Nigeria
General and Industrial Administration. London: Pitman and Sons Ltd Federal Ministry of Finance: Economic Research and Policy Management Department , volume 96 Posted: 1949
S A Labaran
Auditing, Investigation, Assurance Services and Money Laundering/ Forensic Audit Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,654
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,919
RANK
25,024
1 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies