Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Pension Flows and Funds: A Case Study for Accounting, Economics and Public Finances

EGPA XII Permanent Study Group Public Sector Financial Management Workshop, Zurich-Winterthur (Switzerland), May 7-8, 2015

37 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Marion Boisseau-Sierra

University of Cambridge - Cambridge Judge Business School

Date Written: May 15, 2015

Abstract

Accounting for pension obligations has been co-evolving with political and financial economic strategies aimed to prompt and promote active financial markets and institutional investors, as well as transnational harmonisation and convergence of accounting standards between private and public sectors. In this context, our article provides a theoretical analysis of accounting for pension obligations, drawing upon a comprehensive review of existing practice and regulation. The latter are still inconsistent with the actuarial representation that has been adopted by the IPSAS 25 (Employee Benefits) and the IAS 19 (Employee Benefits). According to our frame of analysis, a variety of viable modes of pension management exists and shall be acknowledged by accounting and financial regulations. Accounting (and financial economic) concepts and regulatory recommendations are then elaborated in view to clarify and improve on pension protection, that is, the assurance of continued provision of pension payments at their agreed levels under viable alternative modes of pension management.

Keywords: Pension provision, pension benefit, pension liability, IPSAS, EPSAS, pension fund management, actuarial evaluation, public sector accounting regulation, public finances

JEL Classification: H55, G23, G28, M41, M48, K23

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Boisseau-Sierra, Marion, Accounting for Pension Flows and Funds: A Case Study for Accounting, Economics and Public Finances (May 15, 2015). EGPA XII Permanent Study Group Public Sector Financial Management Workshop, Zurich-Winterthur (Switzerland), May 7-8, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606547 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2606547
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
H Aaron , N Barr , B Bosworth , R Disney , R Holzmann , E Gramlich
Crossref
M Petrie
Comments on "Recognition of Government Pension Obligations" from Brian Donaghue. Note presented by the group Posted: 2003
Comments on IPSASB Exposure Draft 31 "Employee Benefits
American Academy of Acturaries Posted: 2007
Y Biondi , R J Bloomfield , J C Glover , K Jamal , J A Ohlson , S H Penman , . . Wilks , T J
A Perspective on the Joint IASB/FASB Exposure Draft on Accounting for Leases: American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA FASC). Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , p. 861 - 871 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
366
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,280
RANK
186,369
8 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies