Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liability of Lawyers and Accountants to Non-Clients: Negligence and Negligent Misrepresentation

67 Rutgers University Law Review 127 (2015)

40 Pages Posted: 15 May 2015

Jay M. Feinman

Rutgers Law School

Date Written: April 15, 2015

Abstract

Once lawyers and accountants were rarely if ever liable to non-clients for professional negligence. Today that is no longer the case; lawyers and accountants are potentially liable for failing to exercise reasonable care in a variety of settings. But the doctrines applied in these cases vary widely, and the approaches of the jurisdictions in the application of the doctrines vary even more.

The issues in this area were defined by two landmark opinions by Chief Judge Cardozo of the New York Court of Appeals: Glanzer v. Shepard, 135 N.E. 275 (N.Y. 1922), and Ultramares Corp. v. Touche, 174 N.E. 441 (N.Y. 1931). The issues are: Is there a difference between the negligence and negligent misrepresentation causes of action? Under either or both causes of action, in what cases should a court find a duty? The issues have currency in the case law, in recent statutory enactments, and in the Restatement (Third) of Torts: Liability for Economic Harm, currently being considered by The American Law Institute. This article describes the deeper approaches underlying the cases to suggest that the answers to the two issues are: “no” and “it depends.”

Keywords: torts, professional liability, economic loss, lawyers, accountants

JEL Classification: K12, K13

Suggested Citation:

Feinman, Jay M., Liability of Lawyers and Accountants to Non-Clients: Negligence and Negligent Misrepresentation (April 15, 2015). 67 Rutgers University Law Review 127 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2606247
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
E G See , Geaslen V. Berkson , &amp; Gorov , Levin
Ill. App. Ct Posted: 1991
Crossref
Green Spring Farms v. Kersten, 401 N.W.2d 816 (Wis. 1987). Many of the lawyer cases involve a failure to disclose information
N E
Ind. Ct. App , p. 2 - 1223 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Burket V. Hyman , P C E D Lippitt , D Mich ; E , Mich
, p. 5 - 72221 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,356
RANK
261,451
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: The Legal Profession eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies