Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Of More than Usual Interest: The Taxing Problem of Debt Principal

39 Seattle U. L. Rev. 33 (2015)

University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 16-6

51 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2015 Last revised: 12 Feb 2016

Charlene D. Luke

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: June 15, 2015

Abstract

Leverage is an essential but often troubling component of the U.S. market. In the tax area, the potentially problematic incentive effects of interest deductibility have long engaged a wide array of tax commentators and policymakers. While interest deductibility rightly receives widespread scrutiny, a more comprehensive approach to leverage is needed. This Article focuses on the surprisingly complicated tax treatment of cash (and cash equivalent) borrowings. This Article highlights that using debt principal to finance business and investment tax benefits yields favorable tax timing mismatches for taxpayers and thereby theoretically amplifies any distortions caused by the deductibility of debt interest.

The tax system’s current approach to debt-financed tax benefits reflects reactive responses to particular forms of tax avoidance. The current system’s reliance on a factor drawn from tax avoidance case law — likelihood of repayment — has led to an inherently flawed set of tax rules. For example, the at-risk rules identify nonrecourse debt as problematic and then impose timing limitations on tax benefits financed only with that debt type even though potential timing distortions are embedded in all cash-equivalent borrowings. Thus, the at-risk rules treat nonrecourse debt as simultaneously bona fide and suspect; whether an agreement constitutes bona fide debt still must be determined using facts-and-circumstances, case-by-case analysis. The resulting tax rules are confusing and inconsistent. The rules also invite extensive tax planning. The main tax problems relating to debt principal — the timing distortion and the possibility of sham debt — should be addressed as distinct issues with priority given to resolving the timing issue. Giving renewed attention to addressing the timing distortion would facilitate a comprehensive approach to debt and would also have the likely side benefit of making debt-related tax avoidance less attractive. This Article examines multiple proposals for directly limiting timing benefits. Solving timing distortions for even simple cash debt is quite difficult. Thus, this Article details a more accurate, more complex reform avenue but also suggests a simpler, rougher justice one as well. The more complex approach rations the use of borrowed basis while the simpler approach utilizes a deferral charge. In addition, this Article briefly reviews (and rejects) two other possibilities — treating all debt as lacking basis and treating cash borrowings as income on receipt. If it is not currently possible to implement broader reforms proposals, incremental reform that distinguishes more carefully between the underlying timing distortion and tax avoidance behavior could bring greater coherence to the taxing problem of debt principal.

Keywords: income tax, debt

Suggested Citation:

Luke, Charlene D., Of More than Usual Interest: The Taxing Problem of Debt Principal (June 15, 2015). 39 Seattle U. L. Rev. 33 (2015), University of Florida Levin College of Law Research Paper No. 16-6, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2608528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
E G See , I R C
Posted: 1011
Crossref
Joseph M See , J Dodge , J R Fleming , Robert J Peroni
FEDERAL INCOME TAX: DOCTRINE, STRUCTURE, AND POLICY , p. 45 - 46
E G See , I R C
, volume 358
I R C
§ 1012; Phila. Park Amusement Co. v. United States
Ct. Cl , volume 166 Posted: 1954
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
405,369
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Florida Levin College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies