Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Accounting and Financing Terrorist Organizations and Activities: Ethical and Legal Obligations

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 18(1), 59-79 (2017)

21 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2017

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

D. Larry Crumbley

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 2, 2017

Abstract

Financing terrorist organizations and activities must be fought on at least four fronts within public accounting: the SEC Audit Requirements PCAOB Auditing Standards, the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, and state licensing statutes. This paper examines the ethical and legal obligations the public accounting profession face presented by these three domains. It argues first that CPAs have an ethical obligation to report to appropriate authorities evidence of financing terrorist organizations and activities discovered during the course of providing professional services which are not recognized by the SEC Audit Requirements, PCAOB Auditing Standards, the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and Professional Standards, or state licensing statutes, and second that the SEC Audit Requirements, the PCAOB Auditing Standards, the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct and Professional Standards, and state licensing statutes should be revised to explicitly recognize such ethical obligations and create legal obligations to report to appropriate authorities evidence of financing terrorist organizations and activities discovered during the course of providing professional services.

Keywords: public accounting, ethics, terrorism

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis and Crumbley, D. Larry, Public Accounting and Financing Terrorist Organizations and Activities: Ethical and Legal Obligations (January 2, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 18(1), 59-79 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2609711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Aba
Model rules of professional conduct Posted: 2016
Crossref
Aicpa
Code of professional conduct Posted: 2016
S Baradaran , M Findley , D Nielson , J Sharman
Funding terror
University of Pennsylvania Law Review , volume 162 , issue 3 , p. 477 - 536 Posted: 2014
Cnn
Chiquita: $25M fine for terror payments Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,705
RANK
242,798
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies