Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Admirable Safe Harbour? Safe Harbours from Administrative Penalty for Taxpayers When Engaging Tax Agents and the Effects on the Uniform Penalty System

Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 2, 2010

University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 15-13

25 Pages Posted: 26 May 2015 Last revised: 9 Jun 2015

Andrew Smailes

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Peter M. McDermott

The University of Queensland - T.C. Beirne School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The Tax Agent Services (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 (Cth) creates safe harbours that protect taxpayers from administrative penalty for false or misleading statements and late lodgement. These will affect the vast majority of taxpayers because around 74 per cent of individual and 95 per cent of business taxpayers lodge income tax returns via a tax agent. This article provides an evaluation of these safe harbours in isolation and in light of the recent policy discourse of the Henry Review and taxation initiatives aimed at reducing the need for tax agents. While this article concludes that the safe harbours are mostly admirable, certain issues have been identified which require further consideration and action due to policy reasons.

JEL Classification: K00

Suggested Citation:

Smailes, Andrew and McDermott, Peter M., An Admirable Safe Harbour? Safe Harbours from Administrative Penalty for Taxpayers When Engaging Tax Agents and the Effects on the Uniform Penalty System (2010). Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 34, No. 2, 2010, University of Queensland TC Beirne School of Law Research Paper No. 15-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2610453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Commonwealth and Taxation Ombudsman , volume 63
See Michael Carmody
Tax Reform: The Lessons for Tax Administration in Australia' (Speech delivered at the American Chamber of Commerce Posted: 2000-05-02
See above n 53 and accompanying text
Tax Agent Services (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Bill Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
622
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies