Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
One Size Fits All? Stakeholders’ Perceptions of IFRS Adoption Across Europe and Brazil

42 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2015

Cristiane Benetti

ICN Business School

Stephanie Thiery-Dubuisson

ICN Business School

Date Written: May 31, 2015

Abstract

The main objective of this study is to put in evidence the perceptions of stakeholders about IFRS adoption across Europe and Brazil. By means of a survey, (816 completed questionnaires, 10% of population), we investigate whether producers (chief financial officers), users (financial analysts), and controllers (auditors) of accounting data share the same views on the usefulness and goals of the international financial reporting process. We use descriptive statistics and univariate tests to analyze the responses to our multiple-choice questions. Results suggest that respondents' activity has less influence on their answers than the country where they are located.

Keywords: IFRS, Emerging Markets, Brazil, Europe, survey

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G32, C42

Suggested Citation:

Benetti, Cristiane and Thiery-Dubuisson, Stephanie, One Size Fits All? Stakeholders’ Perceptions of IFRS Adoption Across Europe and Brazil (May 31, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2618525 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2618525
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Ahmed K , K Chalmers , H Khlif
A Meta-analysis of IFRS Adoption Effects
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 48 , p. 173 - 217 Posted: 2013
D Alexander , S Servalli
The State and/of Accounting Regulation. Working paper Posted: 2010
J Arnold , P Moizer
A Survey of the Methods Used by UK Investment Analysts to Appraise Investments in Ordinary Shares
Accounting and Business Research , volume 14 , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 1984
Crossref
M A A Balbinotti , C Benetti , P R S Terra
Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
411,653
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies