Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Gown Help Town? Exploring the 'Gap' between Accounting Practice and Academia and Providing a Theory for Why it Exists

26 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2015

Rebecca Bloch

Fairfield University - Charles F. Dolan School of Business

Gary Kleinman

Montclair State University

Amanda Peterson

East Carolina University

Date Written: June 17, 2015

Abstract

The accounting academy is often criticized for not producing research that is relevant to the work of accounting practitioners. In this paper, we explore this issue by first examining the literature dealing with the relationship between the academics’ perspectives and the practitioners’ perspectives. We then present theoretical arguments as to why a gap might exist. We argue that (a) the individuals who enter the academy differ from those who enter accounting practice, and (b) the socialization processes and the impact of the professional setting (practice or academe) on behaviors further the separation of academic research from practitioner needs. We will conclude the paper with recommendations for further understanding of this issue.

Keywords: Practitioner, academics, interaction, socialization, incentives, tenure, practice development, communication, personality, pathways, education

JEL Classification: I20, I21, I29, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bloch, Rebecca and Kleinman, Gary and Peterson, Amanda, Can Gown Help Town? Exploring the 'Gap' between Accounting Practice and Academia and Providing a Theory for Why it Exists (June 17, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2619950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
B Apostolou , J Dorminey , J M Hassell , S Watson
Accounting education literature review
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 161 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Apostolou , J M Hassell , J E Rebele , S F Watson
Accounting education literature review
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 145 - 197 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K D Bailey
The autopoiesis of social systems: assessing Luhmann's theory of selfreference
Systems Research and Behavioral Science , volume 14 , p. 83 - 100 Posted: 1997
G Baldvinsdottir , F Mitchell , H Nörreklit
Issues in the Relationship between Theory and Practice in Management Accounting
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 82 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,906
RANK
427,404
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies