Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effective Tax Rates of U.S. Firms with Permanent Deferral

Tax Notes, Vol. 145, No. 12, 2014

2 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2015

Bret Bogenschneider

Texas A&M University - Kingsville

Abstract

This article calculates the effective tax rate (ETR) of U.S. corporate multinationals. It takes into account the permanent deferral of corporate taxation of foreign earnings held in controlled foreign corporations designated as permanently reinvested earnings (PRE) and recurring tax holidays presumed to occur once every 10 years, similar to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). The results are presented here as a sensitivity analysis of PRE taken as a percentage of total unexplained book tax differences in the following table.

Suggested Citation:

Bogenschneider, Bret, The Effective Tax Rates of U.S. Firms with Permanent Deferral. Tax Notes, Vol. 145, No. 12, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2619267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,317
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies