Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, and Tax Fairness – the Meaning of 'Fair Share' in International Corporate Income Taxation

Posted: 22 Jun 2015

Sas Tullo

York University, Osgoode Hall Law School

Date Written: June 01, 2015

Abstract

Tax Scholars, tax practitioners, and tax administrators often draw a difference between tax avoidance – which is legal, but perhaps immoral – and tax evasion – which is legal and immoral. However, the concepts and definitions (though not settled) of tax avoidance and tax evasion, and their relationship to tax fairness (itself an evolving concept), has been under attack, particularly in the aftermath of the 2008 world financial crisis.

This study seeks to identify a framework that can be used to determine whether or not a corporation is paying its “fair share” of tax in a jurisdiction or not – ie. Whether a corporation meets the terms of its social licence to operate. The study merges the theories and principles being developed in the realm of Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) with those laying behind the difference between tax avoidance, tax evasion, “fair share” of tax, to develop a concept of Corporate Tax Responsibility (“CTR”). This is done in relation to the international tax rules most often used – those found in the OECD’s Model Tax Treaty.

This paper starts by examining, summarily, the historical development of the concepts and definitions of tax avoidance and tax evasion, identifying the principles that support the distinction. This portion of the paper starts with the case of Duke of Westminster (cited as the legal basis for differentiating between avoidance and evasion) and ends with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (“OECD”) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) initiative. Then, again summarily, the paper examines the principles and theories upon with the modern, developing concept of CSR is founded. After setting the background, the paper compares and contrasts the principles developed in the first two parts, in order to develop a concept of CTR and a framework that can be used to determine whether or not a corporation is paying a “fair share” of tax. The paper concludes by examining the international tax rules and identifying problem rules that may prevent or hinder a corporation meeting its CTR obligations.

Keywords: Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, International Taxation, Fair Share, Tax Fairness, Tax Justice, Corporate Social Responsibility, International Corporate Tax Avoidance, CSR, BEPS, OECD

Suggested Citation:

Tullo, Sas, Tax Avoidance, Tax Evasion, and Tax Fairness – the Meaning of 'Fair Share' in International Corporate Income Taxation (June 01, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2620739
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,024
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies