Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assurance of Sustainability Information: A Study of Media Pressure

Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association, 2015

21 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2015

Claire Gillet-Monjarret

University of Montpellier - MRM

Date Written: May 12, 2015

Abstract

This research examines sustainability assurance practices and more specifically whether media pressure influences companies’ decision to implement a voluntary sustainability assurance. The sample consists of companies listed on the French SBF 120 over a period of four years (2007-2010).

The study conducts logistic regressions with longitudinal panel data to empirically test the influence of explanatory factors on the use of sustainability assurance. It appears that the variables related to media pressure explain the establishment of sustainability assurance. Moreover, the size of the company, the industry and the positioning of companies in corporate social responsibility also influence the use of assurance of sustainability information. On the theoretical level, the research contributes to a better understanding of practices of sustainability assurance by offering an explanatory model of this practice.

On a managerial level, it contributes to the understanding of corporate behavior. This research may allow users of sustainability information to judge the relevance of sustainability reporting.

Keywords: sustainability assurance; sustainability information; media pressure

Suggested Citation:

Gillet-Monjarret, Claire, Assurance of Sustainability Information: A Study of Media Pressure (May 12, 2015). Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2621393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
C Adams , R Evans
Accountability, completeness, credibility and the audit expectations gap
Journal of Corporate Citizenship , volume 14 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2004
Crossref
C A Adams , W Y Hill , C B Roberts
Corporate social reporting practices in Western Europe: Legitimating corporate behaviour?
British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 1998
Crossref
W Aerts , D Cormier
Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 34 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2009
Crossref
W Aerts , D Cormier , M Magnan
Intra-industry imitation in corporate environmental reporting: An international perspective
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 3 , p. 299 - 331 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,859
RANK
379,264
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies