Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Brazilian National Simplified Taxation System for the Small Business and the Value Added Tax

FGV Direito SP Research Paper Series No. 123

21 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2015

Leonel Pessôa

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Fundação Getulio Vargas Law School at São Paulo

Giovane da Costa

Universidade Nove de Julho (UNINOVE)

Emerson Maccari

Universidade Nove de Julho (UNINOVE)

Date Written: June 25, 2015

Abstract

Since the 1970s, the importance of small business - SB - has increasingly been recognized in the world and in Brazil. Among the measures taken by the Brazilian government to encourage and promote SB, the National Simplified Taxation System - NSTS - stands out.§ There are, however, many companies that meet the requirements to be in the NSTS, but they do not opt for this system. The objective of this study is to identify and analyze the reasons for this decision. This is an exploratory qualitative investigation based on a case study. The results show that the NSTS simply does not work for companies whose customers are large retail companies. Thus, the study concludes that, for certain sectors, SBs face a drawback: SBs can no longer pay federal taxes in a unified way.

Keywords: Small Business; National Simplified Taxation System, Public Policy, Evaluation of Public Policy, Value Added Tax

Suggested Citation:

Pessôa, Leonel and da Costa, Giovane and Maccari, Emerson, Brazilian National Simplified Taxation System for the Small Business and the Value Added Tax (June 25, 2015). FGV Direito SP Research Paper Series No. 123, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2623286 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2623286
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
T J Bartik
Small business start-ups in the United States: Estimates of the effects of characteristics of states
Southern Economic Journal , volume 55 , p. 1004 - 1022 Posted: 1989
Crossref
D L Birch
The Job Generation Process. MIT Study on Neighbourhood and Regional Change Posted: 1979
D Bruce , J Deskins
Can state tax policies be used to promote entrepreneurial activity? Small Business Economics Posted: 2010
Crossref
D Bruce , T Gurley
Taxes and entrepreneurial activity: an empirical investigation using longitudinal tax return data
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
153
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,664
RANK
441,817
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies