Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Accounts in LLCs and in Partnerships: Powerful Default Rules and Potential Tax Significance

14 Florida State University Business Review 1 (2015)

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 757

30 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2015

Donald J. Weidner

Florida State University College of Law

Date Written: June 25, 2015

Abstract

Balance sheets for limited liability companies and for partnerships differ from corporate balance sheets in one important respect. Accounting for these alternative forms traditionally includes a separate equity account, or “capital account,” for each owner. Accounting practice and caselaw suggest that, at least as a default rule or norm, these accounts guide distributions on liquidation or buyout, and, if negative, may also reflect debts to the firm. Indeed, the statutory default rule of partnership law in most states requires that individual capital accounts be maintained and given economic significance on liquidation or buyout. Although the statutory law of LLCs does not contain these default rules, partnership law provides analogy. Furthermore, the federal income tax rules that apply both to partnerships and to most multi-member LLCs closely examine the maintenance and significance of capital accounts to determine the validity of special allocations of tax benefits. Finally, capital accounts analysis also sharpens the understanding of the economic arrangement of the owners, particularly with respect to how and to what extent they have agreed to share different items of loss.

Suggested Citation:

Weidner, Donald J., Capital Accounts in LLCs and in Partnerships: Powerful Default Rules and Potential Tax Significance (June 25, 2015). 14 Florida State University Business Review 1 (2015), FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 757, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2623274
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
I R C
The factors the IRS considers in this reallocation are: (a) The partners' relative contributions to the partnership; (b) the interests of the partners in economic profits and losses (if different than that in taxable income or loss); (c) the interests of the partners in cash flow and other non-liquidating distributions; and (d) the rights of the partners to distributions of capital upon liquidation
Treas. Reg. § , volume 704 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 704 - 705 Posted: 2012
Andrea Monroe
Too Big to Fail: The Problem of Partnership Allocations
Virginia Tax Review, Winter 2010, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper 2010-22 Pages: 57 Posted: 25 Aug 2010 Last revised: 1 Feb 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E
Estate of Franklin v. Comm'r, 544 F.2d 1045 (9th Cir. 1976) (limiting the utilization of such losses)
These rules were strengthened in 1986. 65. Current version codified at I.R.C
Pub. L , volume 465 Posted: 1970
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
770
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,408
RANK
74,813
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies