Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Reporting and Audit Fees of Non-Accelerated Filers

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2014

33 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2015

Vishal Munsif

California State University, San Bernardino

Meghna Singhvi

Loyola Marymount University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 29, 2014

Abstract

Recent actions by regulators and legislators reflect the belief that compliance with Section 404 of SOX is quite costly for non-accelerated filers. In this paper, we examine (a) the associations between the presence and remediation of internal control problems and audit fees for non-accelerated filers, and (b) how such associations differ for non-accelerated filers from those for accelerated filers. Using data from fiscal years 2008 and 2009, we find that the audit fee premium for non-accelerated filers disclosing a material weakness in internal controls (a) is significantly lower than the corresponding premium paid by accelerated filers, and (b) declines significantly over time only for the non-accelerated filers. We also examine subsequent remediation of internal control problems and find that in the case of accelerated filers remediating clients pay lower fees compared to clients continuing to report internal control problems; however, such differences are not observed in the case of non-accelerated filers. Overall, our findings suggest that the market for audit services differs significantly for non-accelerated filers than from the audit market for accelerated filers.

Keywords: non-accelerated filers, audit fees, internal controls

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Munsif, Vishal and Singhvi, Meghna, Internal Control Reporting and Audit Fees of Non-Accelerated Filers (December 29, 2014). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624731
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Comments submitted to the SEC's Roundtable on Implementation of Internal Control Reporting Provisions Posted: 2005
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404: The 'Section' of Unintended Consequences and Its Impact on Small Business Posted: 2005
J C Bedard , R Hoitash , U Hoitash
Audit pricing and internal control disclosures among non-accelerated filers
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 20 , p. 103 - 126 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J C Bedard , R Hoitash , U Hoitash , K Westermann
Material weaknesses remediation and earnings quality: A detailed examination Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,751
RANK
239,334
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies