Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Collision of Student Loan Debt and Joint Marital Taxation

35 Va. Tax. Rev. 223 (2016).

50 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2015 Last revised: 17 Sep 2017

Victoria J. Haneman

The University of Georgia

Date Written: June 28, 2015

Abstract

Students presently graduating from college represent perhaps the most indebted generation of young adults in the history of the United States, which may be attributed to the fact that interest-bearing debt plays a primary role in ensuring that our children pursue higher education. The long-term consequences of student loan borrowing, and its impact on this generation of borrowers, both remain to be seen. To assist borrowers with the burden of loan repayment, the federal government has developed several income based repayment programs. This Article focuses upon one important detail of these programs that has largely escaped the focus of the media and scholars: the ability of a married borrower to file separate tax returns and qualify for income-based repayment on the basis of his or her income alone.

A complicated tax decision is presently forced upon married borrowers when embarking upon student loan repayment under income-based repayment programs: file taxes jointly and have monthly payments based on joint adjusted gross income (AGI) and combined student debt balances; or, file taxes separately and have monthly payments based on individual AGI and individual student debt. Student loan policy is shifting, however, and it is likely that some married borrowers will have no choice but to file joint returns as of January 2016.

This Article contends that both the present and proposed approaches are broken, and examines the joint filing system through the lens of a simultaneous set of policies and objectives, namely the nation’s program for dealing with educational costs and student debt. In coordinating income-based repayment with a tax filing system that is not marriage neutral, the married female student loan borrower is penalized twofold by her student loans: the gender pay gap means that a woman must work longer to repay her indebtedness, and because of joint tax filing, she is also likely to suffer the consequences of secondary earner bias. This Article illustrates that the joint filing system provided for under the Internal Revenue Code has not kept pace with the economic reality of two-earner families, and suggests that with the crushing weight of student loan debt falling disproportionately on the shoulders of women who must remain in the workplace, the need to revise an outdated system is immediate.

Keywords: tax, student loan, joint filing, women, marriage, PAYE

Suggested Citation:

Haneman, Victoria J., The Collision of Student Loan Debt and Joint Marital Taxation (June 28, 2015). 35 Va. Tax. Rev. 223 (2016)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2624339
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
The White House , Blog
, volume 10 Posted: 2012-06-07
IBR was implemented through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act passed into law
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS Posted: 2007-09
U S Federal Student Aid , Dep&apos;t Of , Educ
Posted: 2015-06-11
U S Dep&apos;t Of , Health , Human Serv
The IBR payment is calculated by taking 15% of a borrower's discretionary income-or, the borrower's adjusted gross income (AGI) after first deducting 150% of the federal poverty guidelines-and dividing it by twelve. For a discussion of poverty guidelines, see supra, note 26. 2015 Poverty Guidelines
2015, the poverty threshold for one person residing in the contiguous forty-eight states or Posted: 2015-06-30
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,948
RANK
261,451
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies