Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cookie Jar Accounting for Foreign Subsidiaries

Journal of Applied Financial Research, Vol II, 2012, 23-36

15 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015

Virginia Fullwood

Texas A&M University (TAMU), Commerce

Tim Wilson

Columbus State University

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Current tax policy encourages U.S. corporations to use an accounting method, “cookie jar accounting”, to report income. For financial accounting, cookie jar accounting is generally associated with financial statement fraud and concealing illegal acts. For tax purposes, cookie jar accounting is accepted as tax avoidance. The purpose of this paper is to compare cookie jar accounting for financial and tax reporting, consider the consequences of tax cookie jars, and suggest an end to current tax policies favoring tax cookie jars.

Suggested Citation:

Fullwood, Virginia and Wilson, Tim, Cookie Jar Accounting for Foreign Subsidiaries (2012). Journal of Applied Financial Research, Vol II, 2012, 23-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2627845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
42 References
W Albrecht , Steve
Fraud Examination Posted: 2003
Brown Barnett , Fleming
The CPA as Fraud-Buster
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 1988-05
David Callahan
Google's Tax Avoidance: So Much for "Don't Be Evil
Huffington Post Posted: 2010-10-21
Michael Cohn
Google Does the "Double Irish" and the "Dutch Sandwich" to Save on U.S. Taxes, Accounting Today Posted: 2010-10-22
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
481
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,797
RANK
135,862
42 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies