Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The U.S.-Israel Tax Treaty, Bearing Two Protocols, Moves Toward Ratification

4 Journal of International Taxation 292 (July 1993)

13 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015

Alan Appel

New York Law School

Zeev Holender

Dr. Zeev Holender, Law Offices & Notary

Date Written: July 1, 1993

Abstract

Due to the Lack of A Tax-Sparing Provision, the Treaty Does Not Reduce Taxes For U.S. Investors, and For Many, Operating Through A Branch Will Continue to be the Best Option. Israel and the U.S. began negotiations on a tax treaty almost 30 years ago. Two treaties signed in the 1960s never entered into force, however, since they were not ratified. The current Treaty finds its roots in 1975, when its first version was signed, though again not ratified.1 Five years later, the U.S. and Israel signed a protocol amending the original draft, which again was not ratified. One of the main reasons for this long process was Israel’s fear that signing a treaty with a disclosure of information clause might deter U.S. investment in Israel. In 1985, however, Israel and the U.S. signed a free trade area agreement to remove customs and non-customs barriers to trade between the two countries. This created an absurd situation where, on the one hand, there was an agreement encouraging trade without borders, but on the other hand, there was no treaty to eliminate double taxation. In addition, in the last few years, the U.S. made strong efforts to increase tax collection from foreign companies and individuals doing business in the U.S. These developments made it more important for the parties to sign a tax treaty. On 1/26/93, the parties signed a second protocol amending the original draft, signed on 11/20/75, as amended by the first protocol signed on 5/30/80. Though the treaty has still not been ratified, the Israeli tax commission has indicated that ratification is imminent. The principal issues involve whether the treaty will solve problems that American investors encounter in Israel and those Israeli investors face in the U.S.

Suggested Citation:

Appel, Alan and Holender, Zeev, The U.S.-Israel Tax Treaty, Bearing Two Protocols, Moves Toward Ratification (July 1, 1993). 4 Journal of International Taxation 292 (July 1993), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

כתב העת הדיגיטלי למשפטיים-מאמרים שעלו לאחרונה | HRN: Hebrew Legal Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies