Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Government Strikes Back -- New IRS Notice Strengthens Anti-Inversion Rules

Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 28, No. 19, 2015

7 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2015

Alan Appel

New York Law School

Date Written: January 1, 2015

Abstract

Inversion or expatriation transactions are often prompted by financial institutions, such as private equity owners and hedge funds that own or control companies in which they have invested and that desire to reduce U.S. corporate taxes they must pay. This article explains the basic steps and perceived tax benefits to U.S. corporations engaging in inversion transactions, and describes both the current statutory limitations contained in the Internal Revenue Code to prevent such inversions and a recently announced Internal Revenue Service (IRS) plan to make inversions more difficult to achieve. Finally, the article discusses the appropriateness of the new IRS plans and suggests other ways to make such inversions less attractive.

Suggested Citation:

Appel, Alan, The Government Strikes Back -- New IRS Notice Strengthens Anti-Inversion Rules (January 1, 2015). Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 28, No. 19, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,767
RANK
687,646
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies