Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overview of the U.S.-Israel Tax Treaty, as Amended by the 1993 Protocol

Tax Management International Journal (1993)

5 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2015

Alan Appel

New York Law School

Date Written: July 9, 1993

Abstract

On January 26, 1993, the United States and Israel signed a protocol to the income tax convention between the two countries which had been signed on November 20, 1975 (the "Proposed Treaty"). Although the Proposed Treaty had been amended by an earlier protocol signed on May 30, 1980 (the "First Protocol"), and been given the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate, the Proposed Treaty has never been ratified by Israel. It is the intention that the Proposed Treaty signed in 1975, as amended by the First Protocol and the protocol signed on January 26, 1993 (the "Second Protocol"), will become the first Income Tax Treaty between the United States and Israel. The Treaty will enter into force after an exchange of the instruments of ratification has taken place.

Suggested Citation:

Appel, Alan, Overview of the U.S.-Israel Tax Treaty, as Amended by the 1993 Protocol (July 9, 1993). Tax Management International Journal (1993), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,548
RANK
618,773
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies