Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Payroll Taxes Be Repealed?

Tax Notes, Vol. 148, No. 2, July 2015

6 Pages Posted: 15 Jul 2015

Willard B. Taylor

New York University School of Law

Date Written: July 13, 2015

Abstract

This article argues that serious consideration should be given to the repeal or payroll taxes, i.e., of FICA and SECA, and of the 3.8% tax on net investment income, and Social Security and Medicare benefits funded with personal income tax revenues. There is no sound reason not to do so, apart from politics, and repeal would focus Congress on the regressive structure of taxes imposed on labor income and eliminate the complexity (and distortion with respect to, e.g., the choice of entity to carry on a business) of three separate taxes.

Keywords: payroll taxes, 3.8% tax on net investment income, earned income tax credit

Suggested Citation:

Taylor, Willard B., Should Payroll Taxes Be Repealed? (July 13, 2015). Tax Notes, Vol. 148, No. 2, July 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2630861
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,009
RANK
413,954
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies