Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Consolidation Trap: Empirical Evidence from Differences in Earnings Management Incentives and Practices in Brazil

Advances in Scientific and Applied Accounting. São Paulo, v.6, n.2, p. 137-155, 2013

22 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2015

Jose Elias Almeida

University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) (Formerly University of Texas-Pan American) - Robert C. Vackar College of Business and Entrepreneurship

Guillermo Braunbeck

University of São Paulo (USP)

Fernanda Furuta

Insper Institute of Education and Research

Nelson Carvalho

FEA-USP

Date Written: October 07, 2013

Abstract

This paper investigates a particular scenario under the Brazilian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles before IFRS adoption, which require public companies to disclose individual financial statements (legal parent entity), together with consolidated financial statements (economic entity). Notwithstanding, different incentives for earnings management can be identified in comparing legal and economic entities and their respective financial statements. We use two models of earnings management, Jones Modified with 848 observations and KS with 694 observations for the same period 2000 to 2006. This research shows certain evidence on income-decreasing expense accounting choices in legal entities financial statements, consistent with the hypothesis of management for lowering tax burden. Whereas, evidence from economic entity (consolidate accounting figures) suggests income-increasing accounting choices, consistent with the political cost and capital market pressure hypotheses. These results can contributes to understand the real impact of legal system in firms accounting in Brazil, since the disclosure requirement for individual and consolidated financial statements is mandatory for few countries around the world.

Keywords: Consolidation, Earnings Management, Accounting Choices, Legal system, Taxation

JEL Classification: D78, G18, G38, H20, H25, H30, K22, K34, K42, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Almeida, Jose Elias and Braunbeck, Guillermo and Furuta, Fernanda and Carvalho, Nelson, The Consolidation Trap: Empirical Evidence from Differences in Earnings Management Incentives and Practices in Brazil (October 07, 2013). Advances in Scientific and Applied Accounting. São Paulo, v.6, n.2, p. 137-155, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2635922
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J E F Almeida
Earnings management no Brasil: estudo empírico em indústrias e grupos estratégicos. Dissertação (Mestrado em Ciências Contábeis) Posted: 2006
J E F Almeida , F M Costa , L H L Faria , M M Brandão
Earnings management no Brasil: grupos estratégicos como nova variável explanatória , p. 81 - 95 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Ball , S P Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 Posted: 2000
Crossref
R Ball , L Shivakumar
Earnings Quality at Initial Public Offerings
Journal of Accounting & Economics, v , volume 45 , p. 324 - 349 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,598
RANK
631,616
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies