Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Clients’ Ties to a Tax Practitioner: The Mediating Influence of Trust and Service Satisfaction

36 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2015

Ranjana Gupta

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: March 2, 2015

Abstract

Research increasingly points to the intangible, ambiguous, global and technical nature of tax practitioner services and the importance of the relationship of the tax practitioner with clients. This article examines how a client’s trust of the tax practitioner and satisfaction with their services influences the client’s commitment to this service relationship. To determine how trust and service satisfaction affects the relationship between interaction behaviour factors and client relationship commitment, a total of 211 responses from clients of various accounting and law firms in New Zealand were analysed.

The data is analysed using the Hayes PROCESS macro for SPSS. The findings suggest a client’s trust of their tax practitioner and satisfaction with their services are instrumental to commitment to the client relationship. In addition, the findings reveal that client relationship commitment significantly reduces when a tax practitioner gives an honest opinion to clients about any ambiguous or grey areas of tax laws involved, and explains implications of tax laws and regulations regarding their tax affairs. The study suggests that effective development of the skills of tax practitioners that builds their clients’ confidence about effectiveness of the working papers could improve the overall client relationship and promote a tax compliance culture.

Suggested Citation:

Gupta, Ranjana, Understanding Clients’ Ties to a Tax Practitioner: The Mediating Influence of Trust and Service Satisfaction (March 2, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2636648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2636648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
J H Collins , D R Vc Milliron , ; Ka Toy , Kinsey
Advocacy and Perception: The Structure of Tax Practice (Working paper
Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 12 , issue 1 Posted: 1987
S Klepper , M Mazur , D Nagin
Expert Intermediaries and legal Compliance: The Case of Tax Preparers
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 34 , issue 1 Posted: 1991
Crossref
P A Hite , G Mcgill
An Examination of Taxpayer Preference for Aggressive Tax Advice
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , issue 4 Posted: 1992
P A Hite , T Stock , C B Cloyd
Reasons for Preparer Usage by Small Business Owners: How Compliant Are They?
National Public Accountant , volume 37 , issue 2 Posted: 1992
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
556,623
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies