Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Resource Accounting: The Accountant's Dilemma

Aronmwan, E. J., & Izedonmi, F. I. O. (2011). Human resource accounting: The accountant’s dilemma. Journal of Management Sciences, 11(1), 10-21

12 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2015

Edosa Aronmwan

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Famous Izedonmi

University of Benin - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 31, 2011

Abstract

The financial statement shows how an organization is fairing viz a viz its economic resources. These economic resources have been broadly divided into human and physical resources. While the physical resources have been conveniently accommodated in the preparation of financial statements, the accountant is still faced with a dilemma concerning the means by which human resources will be captured in the statement hence the concept of human resource accounting. Our objective therefore was to conceptually examine the meaning of human resources, understand how they can be accounted for, find out the various arguments for its valuation and inclusion in the balance sheet, as well as contribute to existing literature on the subject matter. We saw that there are various methods proposed for valuing HR each having their own weaknesses and since there is yet to be a standard as guide, the accountant will continue to be in a dilemma as to evaluating HR as assets for balance sheet purpose.

Keywords: Human Resources, Human Resource Accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Aronmwan, Edosa and Izedonmi, Famous, Human Resource Accounting: The Accountant's Dilemma (July 31, 2011). Aronmwan, E. J., & Izedonmi, F. I. O. (2011). Human resource accounting: The accountant’s dilemma. Journal of Management Sciences, 11(1), 10-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2638453
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
G M N Baker
The Feasibility and utility of human resource accounting
California Management Review , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 17 - 23 Posted: 1974
Crossref
D G Bowers
A review of Rensis Likert's improving the accuracy of P/L reports and estimating the change in dollar value of the human organization Posted: 1973
R L Brummet , E G Flamholtz , W C Pyle
Human resource measurement: A challenge for accountants
The Accounting Review , volume 43 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 224 Posted: 1968
W F Cascio
Costing Human Resources: The Financial Impact of Behaviour in Organizations (4 th Ed Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
311
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,714
RANK
222,859
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies