Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conditional Persistence of Earnings Components and Accounting Anomalies

Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

42 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2015

Eli Amir

Tel Aviv University

Itay Kama

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Shai Levi

Tel Aviv University

Date Written: July 3, 2015

Abstract

We suggest that the failure of investors to distinguish between an earnings component’s autocorrelation coefficient (unconditional persistence) and the marginal contribution of that component’s persistence to the persistence of earnings (conditional persistence) provides a partial explanation to the post-earnings-announcement drift, the post-revenue-announcement drift, and the accrual anomaly. When the conditional persistence of revenue surprises is high (low) relative to its unconditional persistence, both the post-earnings-announcement drift and the post-revenue-announcement drift are high (low), because investors’ under-reaction to revenues and earnings is stronger when the persistence of revenue surprises is more strongly associated with the persistence of earnings surprises. Also, the mispricing of accruals decreases substantially when the conditional persistence of accruals is high relative to its unconditional persistence, because investors’ over-reaction to accruals is mitigated when the persistence of accruals is indeed more strongly associated with the persistence of earnings. Our findings also suggest that financial analysts’ failure to distinguish between unconditional and conditional persistence of revenues and accruals results in more biased revenue and earnings predictions.

Keywords: earnings components, persistence, post-earnings-announcement drift, accrual anomaly, forecast errors

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Amir, Eli and Kama, Itay and Levi, Shai, Conditional Persistence of Earnings Components and Accounting Anomalies (July 3, 2015). Journal of Business, Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2640620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
E Amir , I Kama , J Livnat
Conditional versus unconditional persistence of RNOA components: Implications for valuation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 16 , p. 302 - 327 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Atiase
Predisclosure information, firm capitalization, and security price behavior around earnings announcements
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 23 , p. 21 - 36 Posted: 1985
Crossref
R Ball , E Bartov
How naive is the stock market's use of earnings information
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , p. 319 - 337 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M E Barth , A P Hutton
Analyst earnings forecast revisions and the pricing of accruals
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 9 , p. 59 - 96 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,913
RANK
297,327
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies