Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of Income and Deductions Among Taxpayers Under Section 482 of the United States Internal Revenue Code: Alerting the Courts to the Role of Contractual Interpretation Law in the Transfer Pricing Arm's Length Comparability Analysis

International Transfer Pricing Journal, Vol 22, Issue 3.

Posted: 13 Aug 2015 Last revised: 12 Aug 2016

Amir Pichhadze

University of Oxford

Date Written: April 8, 2015

Abstract

This article discusses the task of identifying controlled transactions under review by the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. In particular, it aims to alert courts as to the necessary role of contractual interpretation law in determining the true nature of such controlled transactions.

Keywords: Law, International Tax, Transfer Pricing, Contract, Interpretation, Contractual Interpretation

JEL Classification: H20, H25, H26, H29, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Pichhadze, Amir, Allocation of Income and Deductions Among Taxpayers Under Section 482 of the United States Internal Revenue Code: Alerting the Courts to the Role of Contractual Interpretation Law in the Transfer Pricing Arm's Length Comparability Analysis (April 8, 2015). International Transfer Pricing Journal, Vol 22, Issue 3., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642893
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies