Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are We Trapped by Our Capital Gains?

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 476

61 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2015 Last revised: 25 Sep 2015

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Dmitry Zelik

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor

Date Written: August 17, 2015

Abstract

For political reasons, we seem to be stuck with the current realization-based system of taxing capital gains. This means that lock-in is a serious problem. Inflation can be dealt with by adjusting basis and bunching by averaging devices, but it is hard to address lock-in, especially if step-up on death is retained. The current rate structure is 39.6% for ordinary income (higher if limits of deductions are taken into account) and 23.8% for capital gains. This has already led to a proliferation of conversion transactions and to pressure on the labor/capital distinction. We are doubtful that an effective centrifuge can be devised to segregate income from labor from income from capital. This may work in Sweden, but it may not work in a country like the US with a hyper-sophisticated capital market and very aggressive tax advisors.

Thus, we have reluctantly come to the conclusion that we are indeed trapped by our capital gains, that the current rate structure is indefensible in practice, and that we should revert to an overall rate of 28% for all income. The following paper summarizes the US tax rules for capital gains in more detail. As can be seen, it is a topic of considerable complexity, most of which could be eliminated if we reverted to the 1986-1990 rate structure of taxing ordinary income and capital gains the same.

Keywords: capital gains, taxation, rate structure

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Zelik, Dmitry, Are We Trapped by Our Capital Gains? (August 17, 2015). U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 476, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2642860 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2642860
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Jenny Anderson
Managers Use Hedge Funds as Big I.R.A.'s' The New York Times , volume 17 Posted: 2007-04
Some scholars refer to carried interest as 'sweat equity', which is the gain in the value of a business derived from the work of its owners. See David A Weisbach Posted: 2008
Va L Rev , volume 715
Crossref
The recent President's FY2014 Budget Proposal proposes to treat carried interest as a mix of capital gains and ordinary income, which, if approved
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,485
RANK
161,215
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies