Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Common Badges of Tax Fraud Uncovered

Practice, CCH Incorporated, October-November 2014

7 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: November 1, 2014

Abstract

Tax practitioners must be sensitive to the process by which an IRS civil tax examination might wind its way through the administrative system to imposition of a civil fraud penalty or, perhaps, to a recommendation for criminal prosecution by the Department of Justice.

The conduct of the taxpayer during an examination can rapidly transform a civil inquiry into a criminal investigation. There is no substitute for mastering the facts and anticipating which, if any, “badges of fraud” may arise so as to be able to prepare a cogent response during a civil IRS examination.

Circumstances that may indicate fraudulent intent, commonly referred to as “badges of fraud,” include: (1) understatements of income (e.g., omissions of specific items or entire sources of income, failure to report relatively substantial amounts of income received) particularly if part of a consistent pattern of underreporting over several years; (2) maintaining inadequate records or accounting irregularities (e.g., two sets of books, false entries on documents); (3) giving implausible or inconsistent explanations of behavior or other acts of the taxpayer evidencing an intent to evade tax (e.g., false statements, destruction of records, transfer of assets); (4) concealing income or assets; (5) failing to cooperate with tax authorities; (6) engaging in illegal activities; (7) providing incomplete or misleading information to one’s tax preparer; (8) lack of credibility of the taxpayer’s testimony; (9) filing false documents, including false income tax returns; (10) failing to file tax returns; and (11) dealing in cash.

Keywords: mination, irs audit, tax dispute, tax fraud, criminal tax

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Common Badges of Tax Fraud Uncovered (November 1, 2014). Practice, CCH Incorporated, October-November 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643810
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Potter ; M) , Memo
, volume 59 , p. 2014 - 2032 Posted: 2014-01-27
Crossref
U R Neely
, volume 86 Posted: 2001
A W Pittard Est
, volume 69 Posted: 1977
Crossref
C Petzoldt
, volume 92 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,120
RANK
672,864
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies