Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining 'Reasonable Cause' for Nonwillful FBAR Violations

Practice, CCH Incorporated, April-May 2015

6 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: May 1, 2015

Abstract

The ability of a U.S. taxpayer to maintain an undisclosed, “secret” foreign financial account is fast becoming nonexistent. For years, the IRS has been pursuing — with mixed success — the disclosure of information regarding undeclared interests of U.S. taxpayers (or those who ought to be U.S. taxpayers) in foreign financial accounts. Numerous taxpayers with previously undisclosed interests in foreign financial accounts and assets have been seeking participation in the current IRS offshore voluntary disclosure program (the OVDP, which began in 2012 and was modified in 2014), modeled after similar programs in 2009 and 2011. Since the launch of the first OVDP in 2009, more than 48,000 taxpayers have come into compliance voluntarily, paying about $6.5 billion in taxes, interest and penalties.

For violations involving the willful failure to report the existence of an interest in a foreign account, the maximum amount of the penalty that may be assessed under Code Sec. 5321(a)(5)(C) is the greater of $100,000 or 50 percent of the balance in an unreported foreign account, per year, for up to six tax years. For violations involving the non-willful failure to report the existence of an interest in a foreign account, the maximum amount of the penalty that may be assessed under Code Sec. 5321(a)(5)(B) shall not exceed $10,000, per year, for up to six tax years.

However, no penalty shall be imposed if such non-willful violation was due to reasonable cause and the amount of the transaction or the balance in the account at the time of the transaction was properly reported.

Taxpayers having undisclosed interests in foreign financial accounts must consult competent tax professionals before deciding to the appropriate method of coming into compliance. If discovered before any voluntary disclosure submission, the results can be devastating. Waiting is not a viable option. Those who think too long may be sorely surprised at the high level of ultimate cooperation of their institution with the U.S. government.

Keywords: FBAR, FBAR enalty, willful, non-willful, nonwillful, IRS, Internal Revenue Service, IRS examination, tax examination, tax dispute

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Determining 'Reasonable Cause' for Nonwillful FBAR Violations (May 1, 2015). Practice, CCH Incorporated, April-May 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies