Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overview: Trust Fund Recovery Penalty

Practice, CCH Incorporated, February-March 2015

4 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2015

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code requires employers to withhold federal income and Social Security taxes from the wages of their employees. An employer is deemed to hold the withheld taxes “in trust” for the United States and must pay them over to the government on a quarterly basis. The withheld amounts are known as trust fund taxes.

If an employer withholds the taxes from its employees but fails to remit them, the government must nevertheless credit the employees for having paid the taxes, and seek the unpaid funds from the employer. Under Code Sec. 6672(a) , the IRS may assess a penalty on responsible persons who willfully fail to collect, account for and pay over the taxes to the United States. In order for the United States to assess the penalty under Code Sec. 6672, two requirements must be met: (1) the party assessed must be a “responsible person,” i.e., one required to “collect, truthfully account for and pay over the tax,” and (2) the party assessed must have “willfully refused to pay the tax.”

Code Sec. 6672 can lead to extremely harsh results for individuals involved in corporate entities that fail to pay over amounts deemed withheld from the employees. Those involved in the operations of companies suffering from the recessionary economy should be careful in determining which creditors are to be paid and which are not to be paid.

Keywords: Code Sec. 6672, trust fund taxes, trust fund recovery penalty, IRS, Internal Revenue Service, tax dispute, employment taxes

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Overview: Trust Fund Recovery Penalty (March 1, 2015). Practice, CCH Incorporated, February-March 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2643802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Code Sec , volume 6672
Crossref
Davis
40 F3d 305 and A.A. Alsheskie, CA-9 , volume 601
H D Buffalow , Jr Ca-
, volume 290 , p. 587 - 88
J Klotz
CA-9, 79-2 USTC ¶9552
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,110
RANK
772,528
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies