Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influence on Usage of Computerized Accounting System on Small and Medium Scale Enterprises

International Conference on Contemporary Management, Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce, University of Jaffna, 2015

11 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2015

P. G. Munasinghe

Rajarata University of Sri Lanka - Faculty of Management Studies

D. Munasinghe

Independent

Date Written: June 12, 2015

Abstract

The Small and Medium scale Enterprises (SMEs) have contribute economic development of country and generate new employment. This causes of generation of income and contribution of social activities and poverty reducing. Technology advancement highly impacts each and every part of the world. Advancement of technology affects to all of the business and it highly influence to the SMEs. Growth of SMEs with the technology in Sri Lankan context is blurred. Therefore, this study was primarily grounded on usage of Computerized Accounting Systems (CASs) and identify the factors that influence on Usage of CASs on SMEs. The study collected empirical data from the 100 SMEs in the North Central Province and bivariate analysis and factor analysis were used for the further analysis. The factors cost, business size, infrastructure, government support, management support, external environment and perceived ease of use were identified in literature. According to the findings it was revealed that 40% SMEs adopted CASs for keeping accounting records. There is no significance influence from demographic variables on usage of CASs and there is significant influence on use of CASs only the factors business size, business cost and external environment. Hence, the software development cost of CASs should be reduced by development companies by providing variety of options to SMEs and the acceptance of new technologies could be encouraged by given that better awareness of competitive advantages of CASs to SMEs.

Keywords: accounting system, ease of use, external environment, size, SMEs

JEL Classification: M41, O10, O30, O33

Suggested Citation:

Munasinghe, P. G. and Sandaruwani, Munasinghe, Factors Influence on Usage of Computerized Accounting System on Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (June 12, 2015). International Conference on Contemporary Management, Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce, University of Jaffna, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2644741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
List , References
Crossref
O S Adebayo , O J Balogun , T S Kareem
An Investigative Study of The Factors Affecting The Adoption of Information And Communication Technology In Small And Medium Scale Enterprises In Oyo State
Nigeria. International Journal of Business and Management Invention , volume 2 , issue 9 , p. 13 - 18 Posted: 2013
I Apulu , A Latham
Drivers for Information and Communication Technology Adoption: A Case Study of Nigerian Small and Medium Sized Enterprises
International Journal of Business and Management , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 51 - 60 Posted: 2011
Crossref
G Edison , F Manuere , M Joseph , K Gutu
Evaluation of Factors Influencing Adoption of Accounting Information System by Small to Medium Enterprises in CHINHOYI
Interdisciplinary Journal of Contemporary Research in Business , volume 4 , issue 6 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,568
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,088
RANK
27,136
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies