Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing a 21st Century Corporate Tax -- An Advance U.S. Minimum Tax on Foreign Income and Other Measures to Protect the Base

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 17, 2015

BYU Law Research Paper No. 15-21

61 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2015 Last revised: 24 Nov 2015

Stephen E. Shay

Boston College Law School

J. Clifton Fleming

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Robert J. Peroni

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: July 31, 2015

Abstract

The 21st Century has seen unprecedented levels of corporate tax aggressiveness and avoidance. This article continues our exploration of second best international tax reforms that would protect the U.S. corporate tax base and have some likelihood of adoption. In this case, we consider how a U.S. minimum tax on foreign income earned by a controlled foreign corporation should be designed to protect the United States against erosion of its corporate income tax base and to combat tax competition by low-tax intermediary countries. In the authors’ view, a minimum tax should be an interim levy that preserves the residual U.S. tax on foreign income, as distinguished from a final minimum tax that partially eliminates the U.S. residual tax. An interim minimum tax would be a significant improvement over current law and would more effectively limit incentives to seek low-taxed foreign income while ameliorating pressure to retain excess earnings abroad.

To achieve the objectives of such a minimum tax, corresponding changes should be made to the U.S. corporate resident definition, the source taxation of foreign MNCs, and the residence taxation of U.S. portfolio investors in foreign corporations to reduce tax advantages under current law for investments in foreign corporations. These changes would reduce tax advantages for foreign parent corporate groups and thereby further protect the U.S. tax base as well as reduce incentives for U.S. corporations to expatriate as a consequence of increased U.S. taxation of foreign income under an interim minimum tax.

Keywords: Corporate Tax, Minimum Tax, International Tax, Income Tax, Controlled Foreign Corporations, Base Erosion

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Shay, Stephen E. and Fleming, J. Clifton and Peroni, Robert Joseph, Designing a 21st Century Corporate Tax -- An Advance U.S. Minimum Tax on Foreign Income and Other Measures to Protect the Base (July 31, 2015). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 17, 2015, BYU Law Research Paper No. 15-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2651928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
C See Alvin , Jr Warren
Income of Foreign Subsidiaries: A Review of the Basic Analytics, 145 TAX NOTES 321
On Fixing U.S. International Taxation Posted: 2014-10-20
JRSLM. REV. LEGAL STUD , volume 125 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Lee A Sheppard
Debunking the Overseas Cash Meme Posted: 2015-05-25
See George , K Yin
Reforming the Taxation of Foreign Direct Investment by U.S. Taxpayers, 118 TAX NOTES 173 , volume 174 Posted: 2008-01-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,203
RANK
217,471
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies