Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Provisions Denying a Deduction for Illegal Expenses and Expenses of an Illegal Business Should Be Repealed

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 18, Forthcoming

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-013

22 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2015

Douglas A. Kahn

University of Michigan Law School

Howard Bromberg

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: August 1, 2015

Abstract

The federal income tax law denies a deduction for illegal expenses, for any expense (legal or otherwise) of an illegal business that is trafficking in controlled substances, for losses incurred by an unlawful business, and for bribes, kickbacks and rebates connected with the Medicare or Medicaid program. In this article, the authors first describe the current treatment of those items by the tax law. The authors explain that the current treatment constitutes a penalty for the taxpayer whose deduction is denied, and then explain why that penalty is a bad policy and conflicts with the traditional purposes and goals of punishing wrongful behavior. The principal objection to the penalty imposed by the tax law’s denial of deductions for business and profit-oriented expenses is that the manner in which the size of the tax law’s penalty is determined is completely arbitrary and bears no relationship to the seriousness of the crime or the conditions under which it was committed. Another objection to the penalty is that it would be litigated in a civil tax suit in which the taxpayer would not have the protections and rights accorded to criminal defendants even though it constitutes a punishment for criminal behavior. The penalty is especially harsh as applied to the legal expenses of a marijuana business under a more stringent Code provision given the decriminalization of marijuana by many states. The authors also contend that the denial of a deduction for unlawful medical expenses conflicts with the principle allowing the patient a deduction for whatever treatment the patient chooses so long as it is based on a bona fide effort to deal with the illness. The authors recommend that Congress act to eliminate all of those tax penalties.

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Douglas A. and Bromberg, Howard, The Tax Provisions Denying a Deduction for Illegal Expenses and Expenses of an Illegal Business Should Be Repealed (August 1, 2015). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 18, Forthcoming, U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 15-013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2653930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Debra Sanders , Susan Gill
Guidance on Inventory Methods for Medical and Recreational Marijuana Businesses , volume 218 Posted: 2015-05
Erwin Chemerinsky , Jolene Foran , Allen Hopper , Sam Kamin
Cooperative Federalism and Marijuana Regulation
Ucla L Rev
Delaware decriminalizes private use of marijuana under a law that takes effect on December 18 , volume 74 , p. 85 - 89 Posted: 2015
See E G Bruce Barcott
WEED THE PEOPLE: THE FUTURE OF LEGAL MARIJUANA
AMERICA , volume 310 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,150
RANK
303,670
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies