Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Credit Risk According to IFRS 9: Significant Increase in Credit Risk and Implications for Financial Institutions

7 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2015 Last revised: 1 Sep 2015

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Sammar Ahmad

University of Cologne

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

This study explores the literature about definitions and concepts when a significant increase in credit risk is achieved. In response to the financial crisis the IASB has introduced a new standard (IFRS 9) on impairment, which requires a three-step approach, which in general replaces the current incurred impairment model with a new expected loss model. This research paper summarizes alternative impairment models and particularly focus on the significant deterioration criteria, which is a cornerstone of the new IFRS 9 impairment model. The expected loss model is not completely new within the accounting literature. The study provides early insights into implementation of IFRS 9 on impairment, as IFRS 9 will become applicable 2018. It is also relevant for regulators, as it becomes obvious due to the nonexistence of a dominant approach, the question arises if the regulator should provide more guidance to avoid that all companies pursue completely different models resulting in decreasing comparability for investors.

Keywords: IFRS 9, impairment, credit risk, financial institutions, accounting literature

JEL Classification: Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Ahmad, Sammar, Credit Risk According to IFRS 9: Significant Increase in Credit Risk and Implications for Financial Institutions (September 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2654120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2654120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
C Laux , C Leuz
The crisis of fair-value accounting: Making sense of the recent debate. Accounting, organizations and society , volume 34 , p. 826 - 834 Posted: 2009
Iasb
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Posted: 2014
Crossref
El Sood , H A
Loan loss provisioning and income smoothing in US banks pre and post the financial crisis
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 25 , p. 64 - 72 Posted: 2012
Pwc
Manual of Accounting Narrative Reporting Posted: 2013
Load more
15 Citations
Mohamed Bechir Chenguel , Nadia Mansour
Finance, Law, and the Crisis of COVID-19
, p. 89 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Alessandro Di Lorenzo , Lucia Magenta
Insurance Regulation in the European Union
, p. 279 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Pasqualina Porretta , Aldo Letizia , Fabrizio Santoboni
Credit risk management in bank: Impacts of IFRS 9 and Basel 3
Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets and Institutions , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 29 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Jasleidy Astrid Prada Segura
Impairment Model of Financial Instruments
Región Científica Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,490
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,429
RANK
13,053
15 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies