Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Losers

Florida Tax Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2015

Eric D. Chason

William & Mary Law School

Date Written: September 8, 2015

Abstract

The U.S. tax system (like most in the world) benefits capital gains in two ways. Investors can defer paying tax until they “realize” any gain (typically by sale) rather than when the gain simply occurs via rising prices. And, individual investors pay a lower, preferred rate on their long-term capital gains as compared to their other ordinary income (like compensation or business profits).

Investors face a burden, though, with respect to their capital losses. Rather than allowing for unlimited capital loss deductions, the Internal Revenue Code largely forces investors to match their capital losses against their capital gains. Limits on capital losses could be justified in several ways. The most prominent justification holds that should not be able to “cherry pick” loss elements out of an overall winning portfolio. This Article seeks to clarify the nature of the cherry-picking argument. It drops “cherry picking” in favor of the somewhat more descriptive “loss harvesting” used in wealth management literature. We will imagine a world in which Congress does not force taxpayers to match losses against gains. In this world, taxpayers could harvest isolated losses whenever they arise and enjoy the benefits of loss deductions — even if the taxpayer has an overall winning portfolio. Using insights from option theory, we can estimate the cost of aggressive loss harvesting.

Forced matching of losses against gains is the primary way the Code curtails loss harvesting. But, forced matching comes at a cost as it will deny loss deductions to investors who have suffered true losses. Again, option theory gives us a method for estimating these costs and — more importantly — compare them to the costs of loss harvesting. Based on this comparison, we will see that the “cure” of forced matching may be worse than the “disease” of loss harvesting.

Keywords: taxation losses

Suggested Citation:

Chason, Eric D., Taxing Losers (September 8, 2015). Florida Tax Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2657643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Using the interest-free loan method from before, the benefit of harvesting is $15,551, 123 a benefit less than the assumed $20,000 cost. The investor should never harvest if the assumed interest-free loan is worth less than the transactions costs. Under our assumptions, any loss less than $385
When Harvesting is Clearly Advisable or Inadvisable First , volume 830
Cf Part , V I
A.1 (describing hypothetical investor and tax system)
The investor has an interest-free loan that lasts for 10 years, valued at a 3% discount rate. The "principal
How do we value the option to harvest next year? At that time the investor will have a $20,000, she would need losses of at least $422,833. Only after achieving such (quite high) losses would the investor actually consider harvesting losses
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,607
RANK
464,622
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies