Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New IRS Guidance Limits FBAR Penalties!

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, June/July 2015, pp. 19-23

5 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2015

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

The IRS recently issued interim guidance to implement procedures to improve the administration of the IRS’s FBAR other than determinations arising from participation in the ongoing IRS Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program (OVDP) or the Streamlined Filing Compliance Procedures (“Streamlined Procedures”). Penalties determined under the IRS OVDP or the Streamlined Procedures are referred to as a “miscellaneous penalty” (rather than an “FBAR penalty”) determined in lieu of all the penalties a taxpayer is avoiding by entering the OVDP or filing through the Streamlined Procedures.

Statutorily, civil FBAR penalties might be $10,000 per year per account for a non-willful failure, but a willful failure to file could, by statute, be subject to civil penalties equivalent to the greater of $100,000 or 50 percent of the balance in an unreported foreign account, per year, for up to six tax years. Non-willful penalties might be avoided if there is “reasonable cause” for the failure to timely file the FBAR.

Under the new IRS guidance, for most cases involving multiple non-willful violations, examiners are now told to recommend one penalty for each open year, regardless of the number of unreported foreign financial accounts. In those cases, the penalty for each year will be determined based on the aggregate balance of all unreported foreign financial accounts, and the penalty for each year will be limited to $10,000.

The new IRS guidance provides that in no event will the total amount of the penalties for non-willful violations exceed 50 percent of the highest aggregate balance of all unreported foreign financial accounts for the years under examination. A non-willful penalty will not be recommended if the examiner determines that the FBAR violations were due to reasonable cause, and the person failing to timely file correct and complete FBARs later files correct and complete FBARs.

For cases involving willful violations over multiple years, IRS examiners will recommend a penalty for each year for which the FBAR violation was willful. In most cases, the total penalty amount for all years under examination will now be limited to 50 percent of the highest aggregate balance of all unreported foreign financial accounts during the years under examination.

In determining the appropriate penalty, IRS examiners are to first determine whether the mitigation threshold conditions in Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) are satisfied. If the mitigation threshold conditions are met, examiners are to make a preliminary penalty calculation based upon the mitigation guidelines in IRM, [iv] except that the penalty for each year will be limited to $10,000. Unless the facts and circumstances of a case warrant a different penalty amount, this is the penalty amount to be asserted.

Where there are multiple owners of an unreported foreign financial account, the IRS guidance provides that examiners must make a separate determination with respect to each co-owner of the foreign financial account as to whether there was a violation and, if so, whether the violation was willful or non-willful.

Generally, the IRS will not impose a penalty for the failure to file the delinquent FBARs if income from the foreign financial accounts reported on the delinquent FBARs is properly reported and taxes have been timely paid on the U.S. tax return, and the taxpayer has not previously been contacted regarding an income tax examination or a request for delinquent returns for the years for which the delinquent FBARs are submitted.

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., New IRS Guidance Limits FBAR Penalties! (July 1, 2015). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, June/July 2015, pp. 19-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2657614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2657614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
499,164
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies