Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Architecture: The New Face of AIS

38 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2015 Last revised: 19 Sep 2015

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Emily Coyne

San Jose State University - School of Library & Information Science

Kenton B. Walker

University of Wyoming

Date Written: September 16, 2015

Abstract

Unlike Financial Accounting, Managerial Accounting, Tax Accounting and Auditing, Accounting Information Systems as an academic discipline is not currently focused on training students to enter a discrete professional field. This lack of focus is not demand-driven as an increasingly dire need exists for IT auditors, as well as systems developers with accounting knowledge. One hurdle preventing expansion of AIS curriculum to prepare accounting students to serve as IT auditors and IT architects is the need for a unifying framework that circumscribes relevant professional competencies. This article introduces such a framework and proposes a corresponding academic discipline that combines accounting and auditing with systems design and control: Accounting Architecture.

Keywords: accounting information systems, information life cycle, technology, control

JEL Classification: M4, L8

Suggested Citation:

Coyne, Joshua G. and Coyne, Emily and Walker, Kenton B., Accounting Architecture: The New Face of AIS (September 16, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2658257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2658257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Aicpa
Trust Services, Principles, Criteria, and Illustrations. AICPA Posted: 2014
J Atherton
From Life Cycle to Continuum: Some Thoughts on the Records Management-Archives Relationship
Archivaria , volume 21 , p. 43 - 51 Posted: 1985
M J Coe
Trust Services: A Better Way to Evaluate IT Controls
Journal of Accountancy , volume 199 , issue 3 Posted: 2005
M Corrigan , J T Sprehe
Cleaning Up Your Information Wasteland
Information Management Journal , volume 44 , issue 3 , p. 26 - 30 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,451
RANK
255,505
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies