Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
XBRL: Towards an Unified Taxonomy

5 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2015 Last revised: 14 Jun 2016

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 6, 2015

Abstract

This study identifies upcoming trends for XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language). While most of the articles focus on technological aspects such as ontology and software engineering this article relates to accounting-related aspects of the taxonomy. The taxonomy can be regarded as a main cornerstone of each XBRL financial reporting submission. As taxonomy do not develop standards, laws and regulations newly, they only derive standardized reporting elements. The current landscape of taxonomy is still characterized by multiple heterogeneous taxonomies. Based on the harmonization requirements and requests from regulators for better comparison of financial reports among peers, it can be concluded that taxonomies will adapt and merge to each other. In an end-game scenario it is probable that only one taxonomy remains and prevails.

Keywords: XBRL, taxonomy, IFRS, US GAAP, harmonization

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, XBRL: Towards an Unified Taxonomy (June 6, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2661294 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2661294
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
R Weber
XML, XBRL, and the future of business and business reporting', Trust and data assurances in capital markets: The role of technology solutions , volume 4 Posted: 2003
R Debreceny , C Felden , B Ochocki , M Piechocki , M Piechocki
Multidimensionality in XBRL. XBRL for Interactive Data Posted: 2009
M Piechocki
XBRL financial reporting supply chain architecture. Freiberg <Sachsen> : TU Bergakademie Freiberg Posted: 2007
N Müller-Wickop , M Schultz , M Nüttgens
XBRL: Impacts, Issues and Future Research Directions. Enterprise Applications and Services in the Finance Industry Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,315
RANK
333,158
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Technology & Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies