Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Abrogration of Social and Ethical Responsibility: Conflicts of Interests in Professional Accounting

Social responsibility in India: Edited proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Corporate Social Responsibility, Udaipur,Rajasthan, India, February 21-23 2005 and hosted by Mohan Lal Sukhadia University & London Metropolitan University

10 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2015

Cindy Davids

Deakin University - Deakin Law School

Gordon Boyce

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

Persons who occupy positions of power or authority often find themselves in conflict of interest situations, where official duties and private interests overlap, but do not coincide. If private interests are pursued in such circumstances, this may be at the expense of the dereliction of official duties, and a failure to heed the interests of the constituency whom officials ostensibly serve.

In accountancy, conflicts of interest may be manifested in various ways. This paper focuses on conflicts of interest in relation to the accounting profession, considering problems in that arise in relation to conflicts of interest between three sets of interests: (i) various dimensions of the private interests of accounting firms and their partners and members; (ii) the private interests of the corporations for whom accountants work (and their various constituents, including managers); and (iii) a wider group of interests, including those of the society whom accountants and auditors, as professionals, profess to serve.

A fundamental clash that is brought to attention by the particular notion of conflict of interest is between narrow sectional or private interests and the wider social responsibilities of both accounting professionals and corporate players. This paper seeks to develop a clear understanding of the nature and dimensions of the problem of conflict of interest in relation to the professional practice of accountancy. The fundamental clash between wider social responsibilities and the private interests of key players in both realms, typified by conflicts of interest, is a key dimension of the current crises of ethics in business and accounting.

Suggested Citation:

Davids, Cindy and Boyce, Gordon, An Abrogration of Social and Ethical Responsibility: Conflicts of Interests in Professional Accounting (2005). Social responsibility in India: Edited proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Corporate Social Responsibility, Udaipur,Rajasthan, India, February 21-23 2005 and hosted by Mohan Lal Sukhadia University & London Metropolitan University, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2661192
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
P Arnold
Disciplining domestic regulation: The World Trade Organization and the market for professional services
Accounting. Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 299 - 330 Posted: 2005
Crossref
J Bakan
The Corporation: The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power Posted: 2004
J Boatright
Trade secrets and conflict of interest. Ethics and the Conduct of Business , p. 128 - 158 Posted: 2000
D K Bowles , J M Mccartiley
Conflicts of interest
American Criminal Law Review , volume 30 , issue 3 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
668,003
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies