Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Mandatory Disclosure Provisions of the Uniform Trust Code: Still Boldly Going Where No Jurisdiction Will Follow -- A Practical Tax-Based Solution

Mississippi Law Journal, 2013

50 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2015

John Treu

West Virginia University - College of Business & Economics

Date Written: September 19, 2015

Abstract

Twelve years have passed since NCCUSL first proposed the Uniform Trust Code ("UTC") which has now been adopted in twenty-five jurisdictions. Notwithstanding the successful adoption of the majority of the provisions of the UTC in each of these jurisdictions, the mandatory disclosure provisions of the UTC have been universally rejected. These mandatory disclosure provisions are reform-based and beneficiary-friendly and have been widely criticized for contradicting the settlor's intent as stated in the plain language of the trust instrument. The majority of UTC adopting jurisdictions have simply deleted the mandatory disclosure provisions altogether and have adopted only the default disclosure provisions. A minority of jurisdictions have made exceptions or otherwise tempered the mandatory nature of the disclosure requirements in an effort to lighten the reporting requirements for trustees. Inasmuch as the primary purpose of any uniform law is to promote uniformity among the various jurisdictions and the mandatory disclosure provisions have failed to achieve adoption in even a single jurisdiction, NCCUSL should follow the majority of UTC adopting jurisdictions and delete the mandatory disclosure provisions of the UTC. The drafting committee should replace the current mandatory disclosure provisions with a mandatory provision that clarifies that the trustee must still make all disclosures to beneficiaries that are required for tax reporting purposes under the internal revenue code. Inasmuch as this is a mere clarification of the law that currently exists under the doctrine of preemption and is consistent with the law in the majority of UTC adopting jurisdictions, such a provision would likely gain widespread acceptance and would significantly remedy the lack of uniformity caused by the current version of the UTC mandatory disclosure provisions.

Keywords: Uniform Trust Act, disclosure provisions, NCCUSL, trustee, beneficiary

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Treu, John, The Mandatory Disclosure Provisions of the Uniform Trust Code: Still Boldly Going Where No Jurisdiction Will Follow -- A Practical Tax-Based Solution (September 19, 2015). Mississippi Law Journal, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2662989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2662989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Unif Compare
TRUST CODE § 813 (amended 2010) with ARIZ
REV. STAT. ANN. § , volume 14 Posted: 2010
Kan , Stat , Ann
, p. 58 - 813
Utah , Ann
, p. 75 - 82 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Wyo , Stat , Ann
, p. 4 - 10 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,558
RANK
826,938
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies