Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Enigma of Wynne

7 William & Mary Business Law Review (2016), Forthcoming

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 461

30 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2015

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: September 21, 2015

Abstract

Maryland’s county income tax does not grant a credit to Maryland residents for the out-of-state income taxes such residents pay on the income they earn outside of Maryland. In Comptroller of the Treasury of Maryland v. Wynne, the U.S. Supreme Court held that this failure causes the Maryland county income tax to violate the dormant Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

Wynne’s implications extend significantly beyond the particular facts of that case. The five justice Wynne majority used that case to make a major statement about the dormant Commerce Clause. In many respects, Wynne is an enigma which perpetuates an inherent problem of the Court’s dormant Commerce Clause doctrine: The Court declares some, ill-defined taxes as unconstitutionally discriminatory because such taxes encourage in-state investment while other, economically equivalent taxes and government programs which similarly encourage intrastate economic activity are apparently acceptable under the dormant Commerce Clause.

Wynne is more important than the immediate situation it addresses and will have consequences beyond the immediate circumstances it addresses. A decision as enigmatic as it is important, Wynne raises as many questions as it answers. Among these are the continuing viability (or not) of external consistency and apportionment, concepts which have been central to the Court’s formulation of the dormant Commerce Clause. Wynne also undermines the Court’s traditional tolerance of the double state income taxation of dual residents since such double taxation can encourage a dual resident to undertake single-taxed in-state economic activity rather than make investments subject to such double taxation.

Keywords: Wynne, dormant commerce clause, double taxation, external consistency, internal consistency, apportionment, nondiscrimination

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., The Enigma of Wynne (September 21, 2015). 7 William & Mary Business Law Review (2016), Forthcoming, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 461, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2663816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Complete Auto, 430 U.S. at 279. For more on Complete Auto, see Edward A. Zelinsky, Rethinking Tax Nexus and Apportionment: Voice, Exit and the Dormant Commerce Clause, 28 VA. TAX REV. 1, 6 , volume 10 Posted: 2008
at 169 (internal and external consistency as "component[s] of fairness in an apportionment formula
488 U Goldberg
at 261 ("we determine whether a tax is fairly apportioned by examining whether it is internally and externally consistent
Goldberg
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,620
RANK
623,124
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies