Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calm Waters: GST and Cash Flow Stability for Small Businesses in Australia

eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 13(2); 2015 492-532.

Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 16-11

42 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2015

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: September 25, 2015

Abstract

Small businesses are seen as vital to the Australian economy. However one particular issue of concern is the stability of their cash flow which can be exacerbated by the unpredictability of the markets, management practices, availability of financing and taxes, such as the goods and services tax (GST).

This article reports a multiple case study of small (including micro) businesses which explored how the interaction with the GST affected small businesses’ cash flow stability. Findings suggest that the cash flow stability of small businesses may be adversely affected when trading with retail consumers due to an inability to pass on the GST. Also, businesses trading with other businesses appear to face problems due to late payment by debtors. A common issue in supporting cash flow stability appears to be a lack of sophisticated cash management practices.

Keywords: small business, GST, cash flow, Australia, compliance, tax

JEL Classification: K34, H25, E62

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett, Calm Waters: GST and Cash Flow Stability for Small Businesses in Australia (September 25, 2015). eJournal of Tax Research, Vol 13(2); 2015 492-532., Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 16-11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth), section 31-8 and section , p. 195 - 196
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth)
Exception is given to Primary Producers and special professionals who are only required to pay to installments annually
Act 1999 (Cth), section 162-15. Except for those that are not required to be registered. Those entities are able to make an annual tax period election see A New Tax System
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) , p. 151 - 156 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,741
RANK
556,623
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies