Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Deductions for Charitable Bequests of IRD

15 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2015 Last revised: 6 Oct 2016

Christopher R. Hoyt

University of Missouri at Kansas City - School of Law

Date Written: September 24, 2015

Abstract

Estates and trusts are recognizing growing amounts of taxable income from “income in respect of a decedent” (or “IRD”). These are payments attributable to income earned by a decedent before death but received by an estate, trust, or other beneficiary after death, and taxed to that recipient. The most common source of IRD is a distribution from an inherited retirement plan account, such as an IRA, 401(k) plan or a profit sharing plan. Since IRD can be taxed twice (once on an estate’s estate tax return and again on the estate’s income tax return), it is possible for a single charitable bequest of IRD to produce charitable tax deductions on both returns.

However, many estates and trusts that received IRD and also made charitable bequests were not able to claim a charitable income tax deduction. This was usually because the governing instrument – either the will or a trust instrument – failed to contain instructions to pay charitable bequests with IRD.

Another income tax problem occurs when a retirement account or appreciated property satisfies a pecuniary (i.e., fixed dollar) charitable bequest. The IRS contends that taxable income is triggered, and there might not be any offsetting charitable income tax deduction.

This article describes the best ways to structure a charitable bequest of retirement plan and other IRD assets (savings bonds, employee stock options, etc.), citing relevant court cases and IRS rulings. It recommends that every governing instrument contain instructions to “pay charitable bequests (if any) first with IRD (if any).” Sample drafting language is provided. Finally, the article describes techniques to avoid adverse tax consequences even when the governing instrument is missing these instructions.

Keywords: tax, income tax, estate, estate tax, trust, income in respect of a decedent, IRD, bequest, charity, charitable bequests, charitable gifts, charitable tax deduction, IRA, retirement plan, retirement account, 401(k), profit sharing, savings bond, economic effect, pecuniary

JEL Classification: D31, G23, H20, H24, K34, L31, M52

Suggested Citation:

Hoyt, Christopher R., Income Tax Deductions for Charitable Bequests of IRD (September 24, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2665128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2665128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A trust's use of an IRA to satisfy a fixed dollar charitable bequest was deemed to trigger taxable income to the trust but the trust could not claim an offsetting charitable income tax deduction since there were no instructions in the governing
See also Private Letter Ruling 9044047 , volume 21 Posted: 1990-08-04
Charitable bequests of savings bonds were analyzed in Rev. Rul. 80-118, 1980-1 C.B. 254 and Private Letter Ruling 9845026
Regs. Section , volume 1 , issue 2 Posted: 1998-08-11
Private Letter Rulings Posted: 1999
Crossref
See the IRS private letter rulings described at infra n. 32
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,377
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,641
RANK
14,063
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies