Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Cross-Border Intercompany Transactions: Are Financing Activities Fungible?

(2015) 30(3) Australian Tax Forum 627-661

36 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2015 Last revised: 5 Oct 2016

Ann Kayis-Kumar

UNSW Sydney

Date Written: July 24, 2015

Abstract

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (‘OECD’) is currently considering best practice approaches to designing rules to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (‘BEPS’) by multinational enterprises (‘MNEs’). However, the OECD makes a distinction between combating BEPS and reducing distortions between the tax treatment of various methods of financing. Yet, an unequal tax treatment can create distortions, which incentivises tax planning behaviour.

Accordingly, this paper aims to improve the tax design of anti-avoidance rules governing MNEs’ cross-border intercompany deductions by introducing the concept of the tax-induced cross-border funding bias. To date, the literature has focussed on the debt bias, which arises from the distortion in the tax treatment between debt and equity financing. On the other hand, the funding bias also includes licensing and leasing activities in addition to debt and equity financing. This presents a novel contribution to the literature.

This paper examines the conceptual case for why is might be appropriate and feasible to restrict the tax deductibility of cross-border intercompany interest, dividends, royalties and lease payments given their mobility and fungibility. Specifically, it examines whether it is preferable for MNEs to be subject to economic rent taxation, as is attained through reform proposals such as the Allowance for Corporate Equity (‘ACE’), in this context. This presents a novel proposal for taxing cross-border intercompany economic rents which aligns with the main aim of corporate tax harmonisation; namely: to reduce, if not remove, distortions relating to the taxation of cross-border intercompany activities.

Keywords: OECD, BEPS, Transfer pricing, Multinational, Economic rent taxation

Suggested Citation:

Kayis-Kumar, Ann, Taxing Cross-Border Intercompany Transactions: Are Financing Activities Fungible? (July 24, 2015). (2015) 30(3) Australian Tax Forum 627-661, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2666323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Avi-Yonah
Clausing and Durst, above n 46, 500; Vann RJ
Taxing International Business Income: Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World' (2010) , volume 2
S C Morse
The Transfer Pricing Regs Need a Good Edit
Pepperdine Law Review , volume 1415 , p. 1427 - 1428 Posted: 2013
W Schön
Transfer Pricing, the Arm's Length Standard and European Union Law
Allocating Taxing Powers Within the European Union Posted: 2013
Crossref
Schön
, p. 89 - 91
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
505,351
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies