Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Measuring Free Cash Flows to Equity for Financial Institutions: An Application to Qatar Islamic and Conventional Banks

18 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2015

Muhammad Farooqi

Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar

Shazia Haq

Carnegie Mellon University - Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar

John R. O'Brien

Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University

Date Written: August 31, 2015

Abstract

This paper explores how accounting disclosures can be combined with regulatory disclosures to refine existing concepts of free cash flows to equity (FCFE) for financial institutions. The resulting measure is designed to promote market discipline by helping investors distinguish among capital demands driven by new growth opportunities, organic capital generation and shifting risk weightings. We apply this measure to the publicly listed conventional and Islamic banks in Qatar. The results support the conclusions that FCFE is relevant for predicting growth and the demand for capital for both Islamic and conventional banks.

Keywords: Free Cashflow to Equity, FCFE, Tier 1 Capital, Bank Stress, Islamic Banks, Conventional Banks

JEL Classification: G2, G21, G28, M4

Suggested Citation:

Farooqi, Muhammad and Haq, Shazia and O'Brien, John R., Measuring Free Cash Flows to Equity for Financial Institutions: An Application to Qatar Islamic and Conventional Banks (August 31, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2668071 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2668071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
The interplay of accounting and regulation and its impact on bank behaviour: Literature review Posted: 2015-01
Simon Benninga
Commercial Bank of Qatar launches a US$750m bond
Intelligence Unit Posted: 2008-06-30
Muhammad Farooqi , John R. O'Brien
A Comparison of the Impact of the Basel Standards Upon Islamic and Conventional Bank Risks in the Gulf State Region
Pages: 27 Posted: 20 Aug 2015 Last revised: 3 Oct 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrew G Haldane
by Executive Director of the Bank of England BIS central bankers' speeches The Penninsula "Doha Bank raises QR2bn Tier 1 capital-boosting bond
Speech American Economic Association Posted: 2011-01-09
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,275
RANK
231,675
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies