Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Triple Bottom Line Reporting: Present Research and Future Direction

Asian Journal of Research in Business Economics and Management, Vol. 5, No. 10, pp. 1-5, October 2015

5 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2015

Dr.Sumanta Dutta

St. Xavier's College (Autonomous) - PG Department of Commerce

Uttam Dutta

West Bengal State University

Date Written: October 1, 2015

Abstract

Numerous business organisations, in an attempt to ‘demonstrate’ their behaviour is sustainable, are beginning to adopt environmental management systems, undertake social agenda’s, and issue stand-alone “sustainability” or “triple bottom line” (TBL) reports in addition to the financial report. The apparent purpose of such practices and reporting is to make organisations more accountable to a diverse group of “stakeholders”. Hence TBL emerged as a new tool for measuring organisational performance. Triple Bottom Line Reporting (TBLR) goes beyond the traditional way of reporting mechanism and encourages businesses to give closer attention to the whole impact of their commercial activities; over and above their financial performance. TBL implies business should provide equal importance to all the three dimensions of business impact without giving unique weight to their financial results.

Present study is an attempt to highlight the literature based evaluation of Triple Bottom Line Reporting (TBLR) in India and its future scope.

Keywords: Triple Bottom Line Reporting, Sustainability Reporting, Transparency and Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: M14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Dr.Sumanta and Dutta, Uttam, Triple Bottom Line Reporting: Present Research and Future Direction (October 1, 2015). Asian Journal of Research in Business Economics and Management, Vol. 5, No. 10, pp. 1-5, October 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2670124
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
A K Basu
Triple Bottom Line Reporting: An overview of the Concept, Methodology, Benefits and Practices
Academic Journal of Hooghly Mohsin College , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 10 Posted: 2010-08
K Chatterjee
Triple Bottom Line Reporting: Is the Global Reporting Initiative Heading for Standardized Credibility in Corporate Communication?
The ICFAI Journal of Accounting Research Posted: 2005-07
Manju Chopra , Punia
Triple Bottom Line Accounting-need of the hour for sustainability goal
The Chartered Accountant, October , p. 600 - 604 Posted: 2012
Sumanta Dutta
Triple Bottom Line Reporting: need of the hour
The Alternative , issue 1 , p. 62 - 74 Posted: 2010-03
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
305
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,905
RANK
227,633
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies