Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Internal Audit in Organization Goals Achievements: A SECP Perspective

10 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2015

Shah Saud

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 10, 2015

Abstract

This commentary provides an analysis that how internal audit play their role in organization goals and improving organization performance. The internal audit department of the Security of Exchange Commission (SEC) of Pakistan is an independent appraisal function within the commission and is responsible to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Commission’s governance, processes, controls and risk management. Internal auditing ensures reliability and integrity of financial and other operating information of an organization and therefore internal audit department need to be independent. The information provided by the management of the organization should be true, because sometimes internal audit fails to detect planed frauds of the management.

Keywords: Security of Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP), organization’s goals, Institute of Internal auditing (IIA), Internal audit (IA)

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Saud, Shah, Role of Internal Audit in Organization Goals Achievements: A SECP Perspective (October 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2672117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2672117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF), Florida: The IIA Research Foundation Posted: 2011
Crossref
Definition of Internal Auditing
Online Available At Posted: 1999
The Role of Internal Auditing in Enterprise-Wide Risk Management (ERM), Florida: The IIA Research Foundation
The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) Posted: 2009
P L Walker , W G Shenkir , T L Barton
ERM in practice
Internal Auditor , volume 60 , issue 4 , p. 51 - 55 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,445
RANK
32,758
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies