Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Alchemy: How Tax Shelter Promoters Use Financial Products to Bedevil the IRS (and How the IRS Helps Them)

Arizona State Law Journal, Vol. 45, No. 2, 2013

63 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2015

Del Wright Jr.

Louisiana State University, Paul M. Hebert Law Center, Students; University of Missouri Kansas City School of Law; UMKC School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

In 2012, taxpayers who participated in the Son of Boss tax shelter received a $1 billion windfall from the government, based on the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Home Concrete & Supply, LLC (“Home Concrete”). In the last ten years, by the Internal Revenue Service’s (“IRS”) own estimate, Son of Boss generated over $6 billion in improper tax benefits. While many taxpayers who participated in the Son of Bosstransaction settled their cases with the IRS, the effect of entering into the transaction was often a net positive for those who settled. Among those who chose not to settle, based on the government’s loss in Home Concrete, taxpayers were allowed to keep the roughly $1 billion in tax benefits generated from those taxpayers’ transactions.

The Son of Boss shelter, at its core, was derived from a financial strategy called a “short against the box,” which, since the 1930s, has allowed taxpayers to avoid paying billions of dollars in capital gains taxes. The government shut down the original form of the short against the box transaction in the mid-1990s and later shut down the Son of Boss transaction in the mid-2000s. Despite those government actions, however, numerous tax shelters derived from the short against the box strategy have robbed the U.S. Treasury of billions of dollars of tax revenue. Those shelters, and the government’s response to them, are discussed herein.

Taxpayers and the IRS have long engaged in a battle over tax shelters. After the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) was amended substantially in1986, numerous large-scale tax shelters became obsolete. What emerged after the 1986 amendment, however, was a cottage industry of tax professionals creating more targeted tax shelters for corporations and high net worth taxpayers.

Many of these modern tax shelters are structured to take advantage of gaps in the law or regulations, particularly with respect to the taxation of combined financial products. Two of the largest such tax shelters, the Son of Boss and the Contingent Deferred Swap (“CDS”) transactions, used combined financial products to turn the Code on its head, generating billions of dollars of tax benefits for transactions largely devoid of substance.

Keywords: tax shelter, Son of Boss tax shelter, box transaction

Suggested Citation:

Wright Jr., Del and Wright Jr., Del, Financial Alchemy: How Tax Shelter Promoters Use Financial Products to Bedevil the IRS (and How the IRS Helps Them) (2013). Arizona State Law Journal, Vol. 45, No. 2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2673590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
a substantial purpose (apart from Federal income tax effects) for entering into such transaction
Definitions and special rules. For purposes of this subsection
I R C
Act also added I.R.C. § 6662(b)(6), which provides that the accuracy-related penalty imposed under § 6662(a) applies to any underpayment attributable to "[a]ny disallowance of claimed tax benefits by reason of a transaction lacking economic substance (within the meaning of section 7701(o)) or failing to meet the requirements of any similar rule of law" (collectively a § 6662(b)(6) transaction). I.R.C. § 6662(b)(6) (2006). The 2010 Act also added I.R.C § 6662(i), which increases the accuracy-related penalty from 20% to 40% for any portion of an underpayment attributable to one or more I.R.C. § 6662(b)(6) transactions , volume 7701 Posted: 2006
Staff , Of , Comm , On , Taxation , Cong , Technical Explanation Of , The , Provisions , The &quot;reconciliation Act , Of
COMBINATION WITH THE , volume 142 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,597
RANK
151,526
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies