Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Conceptual Foundations of Financial Reporting

27 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2015

Ilia D. Dichev

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: October 14, 2015

Abstract

Standard setters advocate a balance sheet approach to financial reporting, which views assets and liabilities as primary, and income as just the change in net assets. This paper argues that income is conceptually and practically better described as “adjusted net cash flows,” where the adjustments are the accounting accruals. One proof of that is seen in the existence of whole accounting systems like tax accounting and NIPA accounting, which emphasize the determination of income but have no balance sheets. Another comes from the observation that income drives changes in net assets, and not the other way around. The paper also argues that an income-based approach to financial reporting is better suited to reflect the success of advancing cash to earn more cash, which defines what for-profit entities do. There are two main features of the income-based approach. One is attention on the cash flows as the natural foundation for financial reporting because they are precisely determined, and provide a clear link to firm valuation. The other is attention on the accounting accruals, which serve to adjust the raw cash flows to better show the current success of investing cash to ultimately earn more cash. Specifically, it argues for revenue recognition which is close to current practice, and for expense recognition which is aligned with the matching principle.

Keywords: standard setting, assets, income

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dichev, Ilia D., On the Conceptual Foundations of Financial Reporting (October 14, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2674271 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2674271
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Andreas Bezold
The subject matter of financial reporting: The conflict between the cash conversion cycles and fair value in the measurement of income Posted: 2009
H G Bullen , K Crook
Revisiting the concepts: A new conceptual framework project Posted: 2005
K Camfferman , S A Zeff
Financial reporting and global capital markets: A history of the International Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1973
Jivas Chakravarthy
The ideological homogenization of the FASB Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
511
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,675
RANK
126,330
7 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies