Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Summary Witness Testimony in Federal Tax Litigation Cases As Identified in Court Opinions

Journal of Forensic and Investigative Acocunting, Volume 5, Issue 1, January - June 2013, pp. 1-34

Posted: 31 Oct 2015 Last revised: 2 Nov 2015

Brigitte Muehlmann

Babson College

Priscilla Ann Burnaby

Bentley University

Martha A. Howe

Bentley University

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

In U.S. tax litigation; there are three types of summary witnesses that may be called by both parties in a case. Their use provides insights into how large volumes of evidence and empirical research complex issues are presented in tax cases. To determine how witnesses are used during tax trials, this is the first to review the 109 tax opinions published through 2010 that disclose the use of summary witnesses. This paper first discusses the Federal Rules of Evidence related to summary witnesses: Rule 1006 primary evidence, Rule 611 pedagogical device and hybrid or secondary-device summary witnesses. Then the court cases are surveyed to determine: the trends in the use of summary witnesses; who presents the summary witness; how many cases are Rule of Evidence 1006 versus Rule 611; the demographics of the summary witnesses; if they serve as more than one type of expert during the trial; and the reasons for which their testimony was challenged in courts of appeals. A detailed review of the opinions led to the master list of 109 cases. The majority of the summary witnesses (57.1%) presented Rule 611 pedagogical- device summaries, 26.5% presented Rule 1006 primary-evidence summaries, and only 10.2% provided the hybrid 1006 and 611 secondary-evidence summaries. The vast majority of the summary witnesses (65.3%) were IRS revenue agents or IRS special agents (10.2%). Fifty percent of the summary witnesses served dual roles before the introduction of the Daubert standard, but only one summary witness did so after the standard was introduced. The summary witnesses’ testimony was challenged in 22 court cases and six verdicts were overturned due to problems with their testimony.

Keywords: Tax, summary witness, expert witness, primary evidence summary, pedagogical-device summaries, secondary-evidence summaries

JEL Classification: M4, H2, K34, K41

Suggested Citation:

Muehlmann, Brigitte and Burnaby, Priscilla Ann and Howe, Martha A., Summary Witness Testimony in Federal Tax Litigation Cases As Identified in Court Opinions (January 1, 2013). Journal of Forensic and Investigative Acocunting, Volume 5, Issue 1, January - June 2013, pp. 1-34, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684550
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
915
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies