Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Financial Reporting in Saudi Arabia: An Exploratory Study

12th International Conference on Accounting: Transparency and Accountability, Ankara, 2015

14 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2015

Sultan Bogami

Umm Al-Qura University - College of Business

Najmul Hoda

Umm Al-Qura University - College of Business; Umm Al-Qura University - College of Business

Date Written: October 23, 2015

Abstract

There has been increasing trend worldwide towards providing the financial statements, not only annual reports but also more financial insights about the company, over the Internet through a website or through some other online media. This study aims to understand the extent of IFR in Saudi Arabia and its adherence to the quality norms. There are studies that surveyed the Internet Financial Reporting (IFR) in many Middle Eastern jurisdictions like Qatar, Oman, Dubai, Turkey, and so on. This study focuses on the IFR in Saudi Arabia. The study involves assessing the quality of financial disclosures on Internet in Saudi Arabia vis-à-vis the standard parameters. The quality parameters were developed using the secondary sources and the indices developed for similar research. The extent of IFR is low and is similar to other Gulf countries. However, the quality indicators are quite different for reasons that could not be determined. This study will contribute to the scholarly understanding of the nature of IFR in Saudi Arabia and extend the earlier studies done in this area. Further, it will provide information to the policy makers and regulators to identify the strengths of IFR. The industry will also be benefited by the utility of IFR for the various stakeholders and its contribution, if any, for the company reputation.

Keywords: Saudi Arabia, Financial Reporting, accounting standards, internet

JEL Classification: M41, M42, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bogami, Sultan and Hoda, Najmul and Hoda, Najmul, Internet Financial Reporting in Saudi Arabia: An Exploratory Study (October 23, 2015). 12th International Conference on Accounting: Transparency and Accountability, Ankara, 2015 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2684089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2684089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Z Alam , K Rashid
Corporate Financial Reporting on the Internet: A Survey of Websites of Listed Companies in Pakistan
The IUP Journal of Corporate Governance Posted: 2014-07
F Alanezi
Factors Influencing Kuwaiti Companies' Internet Financial Reporting
Journal of Economic and Administrative Sciences , volume 25 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Al-Moataz , K Hussainey
Determinants of corporate governance disclosure in Saudi companies
The new language of financial reporting , volume 9 , p. 29 - 32 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Bozcuk , S Aslan , S B Arzova
Internet financial reporting in Turkey
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume 6 , p. 313 - 323 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,672
RANK
481,321
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies