Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Controversy Corner - Reporting Loss Transactions for Partnerships

Journal of Passthrough Entities, p. 41, January-February 2014

6 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2015

Megan L. Brackney

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: January 1, 2014

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code’s reporting requirements for loss transactions can be confusing, particularly when dealing with pass-through entities, where individual partners or members may have different reporting requirements and the reporting of the individual partners or members may be different from that of the entity. Since the penalties for failure to report these transactions are severe for both the taxpayers and the advisors, it is important that these rules be applied with precision. This article discusses the loss category of reportable transactions, Internal Revenue Service guidance for partnerships and partners reporting losses, and the penalties for failure to disclose as required by Treasury Regulations.

Suggested Citation:

Brackney, Megan L., Tax Controversy Corner - Reporting Loss Transactions for Partnerships (January 1, 2014). Journal of Passthrough Entities, p. 41, January-February 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689256
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
Reg
)(i)(A)-(E) , p. 6011 - 6015
Reg
, p. 6011 - 6015
Crossref
Reg
, p. 6011 - 6015
Crossref
Reg
, p. 6011 - 6015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
962
RANK
826,938
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies