Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Loss Transactions: Too Much of a Good Thing

New York Law School Law Review, Vol. 59, 2014/15

23 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2015

Megan L. Brackney

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code requires “material advisors” to disclose “reportable transactions,” which include certain transactions generating large losses, and to retain and produce a list of individuals whom they advise with respect to these transactions. The disclosure and recordkeeping requirements were intended to enhance the ability of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS) to review and audit abusive transactions. The loss transaction category of reportable transactions generates the vast majority of disclosures, but these transactions are rarely abusive. This article explains the disclosure and list maintenance rules for reportable transactions, as well as the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements, and the general definition of “reportable transaction” and the loss transaction category, specifically. The article then discusses the challenges of compliance with the reportable transaction rules and argues that the reportable loss transaction category should be significantly revised.

Suggested Citation:

Brackney, Megan L., Reporting Loss Transactions: Too Much of a Good Thing (2014). New York Law School Law Review, Vol. 59, 2014/15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
I R C 6707a
Posted: 2010
Crossref
H R Rep
, p. 108 - 393 Posted: 2003
I R C 6707a
Crossref
Treas , Reg
, volume 301 , p. 6707 - 6708 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
RANK
753,736
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies