Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measurement using Balance Scorecard – A Case of Nepal

Management Dynamics- A Journal on Management and Economics (2010) Vol.14 (1)

9 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2016

Ghanendra Fago

Shanker Dev Campus, Tribhuvan University, Nepal

Date Written: March 18, 2010

Abstract

Performance measurement (PM) using financial indicators as basics of performance measurement has been failed to measure and monitor multiple dimensions of organizational performance. Being popular in many developed countries, Balance Scorecard (BSC) assesses total business performances from financial, customer, and internal business process and learning and growth perspectives. In order to compare the performance of two commercial banks: BANK A and BANK B, this study applied BCS to measure the overall organizational performance from four different but interlink perspectives. This study concludes that out of four perspectives, the financial indicators; ROSE, EPS and NPM explain good strategic positions. The retention rate of customers, ability to create customers satisfaction and identify profitable customers are found the major indicators of customers’ perspective. The employee satisfaction, training and development and strategic job coverage of commercial banks are found major strategic measures of learning and growth perspective. The mechanism of treatment of complaints giving post sales service through service quality, operating efficiency and responsibilities to society are found the major internal business process strategies of Nepalese commercial banks.

Keywords: Performance Measurement, Balance Scorecard, Management by Objectives, Financial Perspective, Customers Perspective, Internal Business Process Perspective, Learning and Growth Perspective

Suggested Citation:

Fago, Ghanendra, Performance Measurement using Balance Scorecard – A Case of Nepal (March 18, 2010). Management Dynamics- A Journal on Management and Economics (2010) Vol.14 (1), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2692746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
A A Atkinson , J H Waterhouse , R B Wells
A Stakeholder Approach to Strategic Performance Measurement. USA: Sloan Management Review , volume 38 , p. 25 - 37 Posted: 1997
Dennis Campbell , Srikant Datar , Susan Kulp , V. G. Narayanan
Using the Balanced Scorecard as a Control System for Monitoring and Revising Corporate Strategy
Harvard NOM Working Paper No. 02-35 Pages: 45 Posted: 1 Oct 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Dale
Performance Measurement and Management
Management Accounting , volume 78 , issue 3 , p. 65 - 66 Posted: 1996-09
C Drury
Management and Cost accounting Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,405
RANK
255,505
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies