Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Penalties - New Proposed Regulations Flesh Out IRS Whistleblower Program

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, 2012

4 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2018

Bryan C. Skarlatos

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP; New York University School of Law

Joseph Septimus

Kostelanetz & Fink LLP

Date Written: December 1, 2012

Abstract

In 2006, Congress breathed new life into the IRS Whistleblower Program by enacting Code Sec. 7623. Code Sec. 7623(a) codifi ed the IRS’s pre-existing discretionary authority to pay awards to whistleblowers. Code Sec. 7623(b) requires mandatory awards to whistleblowers, of between 15 and 30 percent of the amount collected, under limited circumstances. Generally, awards are mandatory when a whistleblower provides information relating to amounts in dispute that exceed $2 million and, if the information is provided with respect to a taxpayer who is an individual, the taxpayer must have gross income in excess of $200,000 for the tax year at issue. If these thresholds are not met, the whistleblower may still be eligible for a discretionary reward under Code Sec. 7623(a).

On December 18, 2012, the Department of Treasury issued proposed regulations (the “Proposed Regulations”) providing comprehensive guidance to Code Sec. 7623. This column describes some of the central provisions of the Proposed Regulations.

Suggested Citation:

Skarlatos, Bryan C. and Septimus, Joseph, Penalties - New Proposed Regulations Flesh Out IRS Whistleblower Program (December 1, 2012). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
RANK
610,038
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies