Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Integrity of Private Third-Party Compliance Monitoring

6 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2015 Last revised: 11 Dec 2015

Jodi L. Short

UC Law, San Francisco

Michael W. Toffel

Harvard Business School

Date Written: December 10, 2015

Abstract

Government agencies are increasingly turning to private, third-party monitors to inspect and assess regulated entities’ compliance with law. The integrity of these regulatory regimes rests on the validity of the information third-party monitors provide to regulators. The challenge in designing third-party monitoring regimes is that profit-driven private monitors, typically selected and paid by the firms subject to monitoring, have incentives to downplay problems they observe in order to satisfy and retain their clients. This paper discusses the most important factors that our research and the research of many others has shown can affect the integrity of third-party monitoring, and highlights some policy implications for regulators designing third-party monitoring regimes.

Keywords: auditing, regulation, compliance, conflicts of interest, policy, inspection, certification, third-party

JEL Classification: D82, G18

Suggested Citation:

Short, Jodi L. and Toffel, Michael W., The Integrity of Private Third-Party Compliance Monitoring (December 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695429 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695429
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
M H Jiang , Y Stanford , Xie
The issuer-pays rating model and ratings inflation: evidence from corporate credit ratings
Journal of Finance Economics , volume 105 , issue 3 , p. 607 - 621 Posted: 2011
M Firth , C Lin , P Liu , ; A Xuan , F Ljungqvist , L T Marston , K D Starks , H Wei , Yan
Conflicts of interest in sell-side research and the moderating role of institutional investors
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 284 - 295 Posted: 2007
A , M A Chen , ; J Cornaggia , K J Cornaggia , J E Hund
Credit ratings across asset classes: A long-term perspective
Quarterly Journal of Finance , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 40 Posted: 2012
M Efing , H Hau , ; Z Gu , Z Li , Y G Yang
Monitors or predators: The influence of institutional investors on sell-side analysts
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 116 , issue 1 , p. 137 - 169 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
747
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,612
RANK
77,889
10 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies