Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Epistemic Integrity in Accounting: Accountants as Justifiers in Joint Epistemic Agents

Business & Professional Ethics Journal, Vol. 32, Issue 1-2, pp. 109-130, Spring 2013, DOI: 10.5840/bpej2013321/25

30 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2015

Boudewijn de Bruin

University of Groningen, Faculties of Philosophy, and Economics and Business

Date Written: June 17, 2013

Abstract

This paper presents an epistemological or knowledge-theoretic reinterpretation of the role of external accountants. It presents a joint epistemic agent model in which corporate management and accountants together form a source of testimonial knowledge for the firm’s stakeholders about the firm’s financial situation. Recent work from virtue epistemology is used, according to which knowledge is, roughly, true belief that is justified by way of the exercise of epistemic virtue. In the joint epistemic agent model, corporate management provides information, while the accountants ensure justification. The paper argues that to ensure justification, accountants have to exercise self-regarding epistemic virtues such as open-mindedness, but also other-regarding epistemic virtues such as generosity. It is also argued that these virtues are only partly encompassed in existing professional codes of conduct.

Keywords: accountants, epistemic virtue, code of conduct, testimony

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

de Bruin, Boudewijn, Epistemic Integrity in Accounting: Accountants as Justifiers in Joint Epistemic Agents (June 17, 2013). Business & Professional Ethics Journal, Vol. 32, Issue 1-2, pp. 109-130, Spring 2013, DOI: 10.5840/bpej2013321/25, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Acca
Audit Under Fire: A Review of the Post-Financial Crisis Inquiries
London: Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2011
Barbara L Adams , Fannie L Malone , Woodrow James
Confidentiality Decisions: The Reasoning Process of CPAs in Resolving Ethical Dilemmas
Journal Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,245
RANK
747,753
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies