Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservation Easements and the Valuation Conundrum

19 Florida Tax Review 225 (2016)

University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 145

98 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2015 Last revised: 4 Jul 2016

Nancy A. McLaughlin

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

For more than fifty years, taxpayers have been able to claim a federal charitable income tax deduction under Internal Revenue Code § 170(h) for the donation of a conservation easement or a façade easement. For just as long, the deduction has been subject to abuse, including valuation abuse. Dismayed by the expenditure of significant judicial and administrative resources to combat abuse in the easement donation context, the Treasury Department recently proposed reforms, including reforms to address valuation abuse. The reforms were proposed in somewhat of an analytical vacuum, however, because there has been no comprehensive analysis of the easement valuation case law. This article fills that void. It examines the easement valuation case law and discusses the most common methods by which taxpayers or, more precisely, their appraisers overvalue easements. It also proposes alternative reforms informed by the lessons learned from the case law. Concise summaries of the relevant facts and holdings of the cases are included in appendices.

Keywords: conservation easement, facade easement, valuation, valuation abuse, appraisal, before and after method, sales comparison approach, subdivision development analysis, discounted cash flow analysis, reproduction cost approach, reasonable probability of rezoning, 170(h), Whitehouse, Palmer Ranch

JEL Classification: E62, H20, K11, K34, Q24

Suggested Citation:

McLaughlin, Nancy A., Conservation Easements and the Valuation Conundrum (2015). 19 Florida Tax Review 225 (2016), University of Utah College of Law Research Paper No. 145, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2704576
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
See Nancy , A Mclaughlin
Increasing the Tax Incentives for Conservation Easement Donations-A Responsible Approach
ECOL. L. Q , volume 1 , p. 87 - 91 Posted: 2004
E G See , I R C
, volume 170
§ 1.170A-13(c), 1.170A
Crossref
I.R.B , volume 46 , issue 11 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,331
RANK
34,293
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies