Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Trends in Barter Activity in the Russian Federation

The International Journal of Accounting 40 (2005): 39-63

Posted: 23 Dec 2015

Gary Fleischman

Texas Tech University

Paul Herz

Independent

Date Written: December 21, 2005

Abstract

Barter, which has dominated the Russian economic landscape for years, has significant economic and accounting implications. Barter often camouflages Russian businesses’ financial and tax statements making true costs, prices, values, and profits a mystery, thereby compromising financial-statement transparency. Contemporary literature suggests that barter is still rampant in Russia. For this study a group of Russian businesspersons were asked to complete a survey regarding the levels of barter in Russia since 1996. The empirical evidence we collected provides insight into recent trends in barter in Russia, including indication that the incidence of barter has dramatically decreased. These findings have significant implications for Russian business and economic development. A reduction in barter is likely to enhance financial-statement transparency, thus minimizing information risk for potential investors and creditors.

Suggested Citation:

Fleischman, Gary and Herz, Paul, An Empirical Investigation of Trends in Barter Activity in the Russian Federation (December 21, 2005). The International Journal of Accounting 40 (2005): 39-63, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706840
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,135
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies