Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
D.C. Circuit in Florida Bankers Misapplies Anti-Injunction Act

Tax Notes, Vol. 149, No. 12, 2015

15 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2016

Patrick J. Smith

Ivins, Phillips & Barker

Date Written: December 21, 2015

Abstract

In this article, Smith explains why a divided panel of the D.C. Circuit was incorrect in holding that the Anti-Injunction Act (AIA) bars a challenge to the IRS regulations at issue in Florida Bankers. He argues that the majority’s decision is at odds with the Supreme Court’s narrow interpretation of the analogous Tax Injunction Act in Direct Marketing. The most significant consequence of applying the reading of the AIA that is suggested by the Direct Marketing decision is that taxpayers would be able to bring direct challenges to the validity of tax regulations in federal district court under the judicial review provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act without having to engage in transactions that would be subject to those regulations.

Keywords: Anti-Injunction Act, Direct Marketing, Florida Bankers, Tax Injunction Act

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Patrick J., D.C. Circuit in Florida Bankers Misapplies Anti-Injunction Act (December 21, 2015). Tax Notes, Vol. 149, No. 12, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2710600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,043
RANK
682,707
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies