Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The US Tax Classification of Canadian Mutual Fund Trusts

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 4, 2015

Posted: 6 Jan 2016

Stephen Chalhoub

SKL Tax

Date Written: January 6, 2016

Abstract

It is widely believed that US persons who invest in Canadian mutual fund trusts could be subject to punitive US tax consequences on the disposition of their investment, because these entities could be treated as passive foreign investment companies (PFICs) under US tax law. This view is based on a one-sentence summary conclusion in a non-binding memorandum on an unrelated topic issued by the Internal Revenue Service in 2009. While the position of the US tax authorities is far from certain, many practitioners have chosen to err on the side of caution and have acted on the assumption that Canadian mutual fund trusts are PFICs for US tax purposes.

This article outlines two possible sets of solutions to the PFIC problem as it applies to Canadian mutual fund trusts. The solutions depend on whether the Canadian mutual fund trust is classified as a partnership or as a corporation for US tax purposes. The key determinant between the two classifications is whether or not all investors in the trust have limited liability for the debts and obligations of the trust. If all of the investors have limited liability, the trust is properly classified as a corporation for US tax purposes and thus is very likely a PFIC. In this scenario, there are three potential solutions to the PFIC problem: (1) holding the investment in a mutual fund inside a registered retirement savings plan; (2) making the qualified electing fund election; or (3) making the mark-to-market election. All three solutions are suboptimal. It is possible that Canadian mutual fund trusts are actually partnerships for US tax purposes. If the trust is a partnership, it cannot be a PFIC. There are four arguments to support a partnership classification: (1) trusts formed prior to the enactment of certain provincial statutes granting investors limited liability may be partnerships for US tax purposes; (2) trusts to which these statutes do not apply may be partnerships for US tax purposes; (3) a newly formed trust can elect a partnership classification; and (4) all Canadian mutual fund trusts might be partnerships for US tax purposes. For an individual investor who is a US person, the benefits of a partnership classification are substantial. The potential application of the PFIC regime is removed, and the income is taxed like income from any other investment. There is no annual reporting for the vast majority of investors. The position that partnership treatment applies can be taken on the individual's US tax return. A partnership classification can also be implemented at the fund level. For funds that do not invest in the United States, there are few drawbacks and many advantages to a partnership classification. For funds that do invest in the United States, there are a few drawbacks, but these can be managed. In short, there are manageable solutions to the PFIC problem as it applies to Canadian mutual fund trust.

Keywords: US-Canada, mutual funds, United States, cross-border, RRSP, IRS

Suggested Citation:

Chalhoub, Stephen, The US Tax Classification of Canadian Mutual Fund Trusts (January 6, 2016). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 63, No. 4, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2711760
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies