Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Upstream Loans and Dispositions of Foreign Affiliate Shares

CCH International Tax Newsletter, Number 85 (December 2015)

8 Pages Posted: 21 Jan 2016

Geoffrey S. Turner

Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP

Date Written: December 5, 2015

Abstract

The new upstream loan rules in subsections 90(6) through (15) of the Income Tax Act (Canada) have now been in force for several years. Yet there remain several anomalies in the application of these rules, particularly where the Canadian parent company sells or restructures the foreign affiliate group from which an outstanding upstream loan has previously been made. This article summarizes the upstream loan rules, and explores the impact of the upstream loan rules in several situations involving dispositions of the shares of the creditor foreign affiliate. In general, under the current rules anomalous results can be avoided with certainty only by causing the parent Canadian company to actually repay its outstanding upstream loans borrowed from any creditor foreign affiliates. This may not always be possible or practical. The repayment requirement is arguably too strict and warrants reconsideration.

Keywords: upstream, loan, income tax act, Canada, foreign affiliate

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Turner, Geoffrey S., Upstream Loans and Dispositions of Foreign Affiliate Shares (December 5, 2015). CCH International Tax Newsletter, Number 85 (December 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2718548
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
RANK
610,038
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies