Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quantity versus Quality: The Value Relevance of CSR Disclosure of Saudi Companies

Alotaibi, K. and Hussainey, K. (2016). Quantity versus quality: The value relevance of CSR disclosure of Saudi companies. Corporate Ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 2, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2016

Khaleed Alotaibi

Plymouth University

Khaled Hussainey

Portsmouth University

Date Written: January 21, 2016

Abstract

We offer a novel contribution by examining the impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) disclosure quantity and quality on firm value. We use a sample of 171 non-financial firms listed in the Saudi stock market for the period 2013-2014. We complement and extend the work of Hasseldine, Salama and Toms (2005) by measuring the quantity and quality of CSR disclosure and examining their impact on firm value. To measure CSR disclosure quality, we following Beest el al (2009) and capture all qualitative attributes of information quality as defined in the conceptual framework of the IASB (2010 a). We use a CSR disclosure index to measure the quantity of disclosure.

Our analysis shows a positive association between CSR disclosure quality and quantity and market capitalisation. However, we did not find the same results when we use either Tobin’s Q or Return on Assets (ROA) as proxies for firm value. This suggests that both CSR disclosure quantity and quality have the same impact on firm value. However, the significance of this impact depends on whether the authors use market capitalisation, Tobin’s Q or ROA.

Keywords: Corporate Social Responsibility, Disclosure Quantity versus Quality, Firm Value, Saudi Arabia

Suggested Citation:

Alotaibi, Khaleed and Hussainey, Khaled, Quantity versus Quality: The Value Relevance of CSR Disclosure of Saudi Companies (January 21, 2016). Alotaibi, K. and Hussainey, K. (2016). Quantity versus quality: The value relevance of CSR disclosure of Saudi companies. Corporate Ownership and Control, Volume 13, Issue 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2719637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Abdur Rouf , M Harun , M
Ownership structure and voluntary disclosure in annual reports of bangladesh
Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Sciences , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 129 - 139 Posted: 2011
Ahmed Haji , A
Corporate social responsibility disclosures over time: evidence from Malaysia
Managerial auditing journal , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 647 - 676 Posted: 2013
W Albassam
Corporate governance, voluntary disclosure and financial performance: an empirical analysis of Saudi listed firms using mixed-methods of research design Posted: 2014
S Anwar , D Romansyah , S Pramono , K Watanabe
Treating return of mudharabah time deposit as investment instrument
Humanomics , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 296 - 309 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
672
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,129
RANK
89,184
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies