Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Life after Ridgely: While Some Contingency Fee Restrictions Have Been Lifted, Practitioners Should Be Mindful that Reportable Transaction Rules Apply

Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 17, No. 5, 2015

8 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2016

Charles Markham, MST, EA, USTCP

Markham & Company LLC

Date Written: September 6, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to alert practitioners that despite the judicially enforced relaxation of the 10.27 restriction, another rule, the reportable transaction rule, has been applicable to any type of contingency fee arrangement and could become problematic if this failure to report is noticed by the IRS, presumably in an examination of the refund claim. While the reportable transaction rules regulate a number of aspects of tax shelter activities, this article will narrowly focus on one aspect of the reportable transaction rules. Namely, that under Reg. §1.6011-4(c)(4), nearly any contingent fee arrangement such as the type now legalized by the Ridgely decision will, nonetheless, be subject to the disclosure rules, and a Form 8886 must be submitted with the amended returns or the taxpayer (and possibly the preparer) could be subject to severe penalties.

Keywords: Contingency fees, amended returns, Ridgely v. Lew, Circular 230 Section 10.27, Reportable Transactions, Tax shelters

JEL Classification: E62

Suggested Citation:

Markham, Charles, Life after Ridgely: While Some Contingency Fee Restrictions Have Been Lifted, Practitioners Should Be Mindful that Reportable Transaction Rules Apply (September 6, 2015). Journal of Tax Practice and Procedure, Vol. 17, No. 5, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2721561
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Ridgely V Lew , Civ
S Loving , Ca-Dc
, volume 175 , p. 742 - 745 Posted: 2014-01-50
It could be argued that a non-Circular 230 practitioner was not regulated by Circular 230 and hence could submit a contingent fee
And a copy of Form 8886 mailed to the Office of Tax Shelter Analysis in Ogden
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,065
RANK
572,233
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies