Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Aid Recovery & Investor Protection for US Taxpayers Before and After TTIP: How Back Taxes Might Lead to an Inequitable Treat…

Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper

23 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2016

Raymond Luja

Maastricht University - Department of Tax Law

Date Written: January 15, 2016

Abstract

Recently the European Commission started a large number of individual state aid investigations into the tax rulings of 21 EU Member States. If it turns out that national rulings contain state aid as defined in Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), they should normally have gone through the EU’s approval process. In this contribution we will focus on the “what if”. It will be assumed that at least some of these investigations will end up in a finding of unlawfully granted aid resulting in an order to recover such aid by the European Commission, which will subsequently be upheld by the Union’s Courts.

In third country situations, safeguarding legitimate expectations under investor protection agreements vis-à-vis actions of national governments may go contrary to CJEU state aid doctrine. Especially in situations where a Member State actively offered certain tax benefits or took the initiative to invite companies in a showdown to attract foreign investment, fair and equitable treatment may become relevant. While the cancelling of future tax benefits because of a state aid violation may be hard to sell but still acceptable, retroactive withdrawal of benefits (the actual recovery) may be the most problematic.

In the ongoing formal investigations into tax rulings it is unlikely that claimants will be able to pass all the procedural hoops, even if they would be able to show a violation of any fair and equitable treatment obligation. Things may be different should recovery be ordered in newer EU Member States that concluded more modern BITs prior to their accession to the EU, especially if those BITs refer to the ICSID for arbitrage.

For US investors, TTIP may be a game changer. It might improve their legal position depending on the scope of the fair and equitable treatment obligation in the final text. Or, it may kill any chance of success should the US agree to the state aid carve out recently proposed by the European Commission. Any specific limitation or carve-out for tax matters under TTIP will be relevant here as well, although the optional nature of recovery via tax procedures in many EU Member States might lead to questions about their applicability.

Keywords: state aid, recovery, investment law, TTIP, taxation, arbitrage, investor protection, rulings

Suggested Citation:

Luja, Raymond, State Aid Recovery & Investor Protection for US Taxpayers Before and After TTIP: How Back Taxes Might Lead to an Inequitable Treat… (January 15, 2016). Maastricht Faculty of Law Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2725924 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2725924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
306,268
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Courts & Adjudication eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies