Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk Accounting: The Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting (BCBS 239) Foundation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Risk Governance

Hughes PJ, Grody AD. "Risk Accounting: The Risk Data and Risk Reporting (BCBS 239) Foundation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Risk Governance", Journal of Risk Management in Financial Institutions, Part 1 - Vol 9/No 2/Spring 2016, pp 130-146 and Part 2 - Vol 9/No 3/Summer 2016, pp 224-248

47 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2016

Allan D. Grody

Financial InterGroup; New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Peter J. Hughes

Durham Business School - Centre for Banking, Institutions & Development

Date Written: February 15, 2016

Abstract

In the period following the global financial crisis high profile regulatory breaches and other instances of banks’ misconduct triggered widespread concern that the culture and standards of conduct in banks had declined to a point of unacceptability. The crisis also brought into sharp focus the inability of banks to completely and accurately report the risks they accept in order to create shareholder value. These events and circumstances culminated in a crisis of trust between banks and their stakeholders that include governments, regulators, investors and customers.

In this same period regulators focused on their primary ‘capital-at-risk’ regimes administered through the Basel capital accords, reinforcing additional levels of capital as a bank’s primary protection against unexpected losses. At the same time Basel introduced ‘firm-at-risk’ mandates that required improvements in banks’ control over risk data and associated technology infrastructure.

The most significant game changing post-crisis regulatory mandate in this regard is the Basel Committee’s principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting also known as ‘BCBS 239’. This new mandate requires banks: to implement controls over risk data that are as robust as those applicable to accounting data; to create accurate and single authoritative sources of risk data; and to ensure the precision, timeliness, comprehensiveness and adaptability of risk reporting. BCBS 239 effectively sets the parameters for enterprise risk management (ERM) and provides the foundation on which risk governance and risk cultures can positively evolve.

Whereas BCBS 239 expressly states that a common risk metric for all forms of risk is not required, the authors challenge this thinking and argue that it is only through the adoption of a common risk metric that the objectives of BCBS 239 can be reasonably achieved.

Part 1 of this paper explains why bankers – risk managers and accountants in particular – must view the need for the convergence of finance and risk systems within a common control and reporting framework as an imperative. Part 2 describes the ‘Risk Accounting’ methodology and its introduction of both a common measurement framework for all forms of risk and a common risk metric, the ‘Risk Unit’ or RU.

Keywords: Risk accounting, Basel II, Basel III, Risk measurement, Risk management, BCBS 239, Risk data aggregation, Operational risk, Enterprise risk, Risk appetite, Risk culture, Governance

JEL Classification: D81, E10, F02, F23, G2, G38, L2, M4

Suggested Citation:

Grody, Allan D. and Hughes, Peter J., Risk Accounting: The Risk Data Aggregation and Risk Reporting (BCBS 239) Foundation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Risk Governance (February 15, 2016). Hughes PJ, Grody AD. "Risk Accounting: The Risk Data and Risk Reporting (BCBS 239) Foundation of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and Risk Governance", Journal of Risk Management in Financial Institutions, Part 1 - Vol 9/No 2/Spring 2016, pp 130-146 and Part 2 - Vol 9/No 3/Summer 2016, pp 224-248 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2726638 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2726638
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Position Control & Amendments 19. Billing / Collections 2. Deal Structuring 11. Transaction Reporting 20. Physical Commodities Mgt 3. Order Management 12. Credit Limit Monitoring 21
Product & Service Pricing , volume 10
Pre-Trade Validation 13. Trading Limit Monitoring 22. Trading Account Reconciliations
Quote Management 14. Trade Settlement 23. G/L Proofs & Substantiation
Trade Execution & Capture 15. Corporate Event Processing 24. Management Reporting 7. Cash Management 16
Custody Services , volume 25
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,493
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,539
RANK
29,234
3 Citations
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies