Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transposition of the Balance Sheet to Financial and Functional Balance Sheet. Research and Development

9 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2016

Liana Gadau

Spiru Haret University

Date Written: February 5, 2016

Abstract

As the title suggests, through this paper we want to highlight the necessity of treating again the content and the form of the balance sheet in order to adapt it to a more efficient analysis, this way surpassing the informational valences of the classic balance sheet.

The functional and the financial balance sheet will be taken into account. These models of balance sheet permit the complex analyses regarding the solvability or the bankruptcy risk of an enterprise to take place, and also other analyses, like the analysis of the structure and the financial/ functional equilibrium, the analysis of the company on operating cycles and their role in the functioning of the company. Through the particularities offered by each of these two models of balance sheet, we want to present the advantages of a superior informing. This content of this material is based on a vast investigation of the specialized literature.

Keywords: the balance sheet, the financial balance sheet, the functional balance sheet, the liquidity-exigibility criteria, the functional criteria

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gadau, Liana, The Transposition of the Balance Sheet to Financial and Functional Balance Sheet. Research and Development (February 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2728170 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2728170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
L Buşe
Analiză economico-financiară Posted: 2005
B • Colasse
L'analyse financière de l'entreprise , volume 5 Posted: 2008
E Cohen
Posted: 2007
L Gădău
Întocmirea, prezentarea şi utilizarea situaţiilor financiare Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,832
RANK
261,451
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies