Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of International Public Sector Accounting Standard 23 and International Accounting Standard 20

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2015, Vol 6, No. 20

12 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2016 Last revised: 29 Feb 2016

Papias Njaala

Institute of Accountancy Arusha

Date Written: October 31, 2015

Abstract

International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS) 23: Revenue from Non-exchange Transactions (Taxes and Transfers) is an accounting standard used to account for taxes and transfers. They are applicable to public sector entities [except for Government Business Enterprises (GBEs)]. The standard is also not applicable to private sector entities. IAS 20: Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance is the counterparty accounting standard used in private sector (excluding the SMEs) and GBEs with more than 100 employees. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are required to apply a set of accounting standards known as International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) for SMEs.

The purpose of this paper is to explore the main areas of differences between the IPSAS 23 and IAS 20 and suggest some improvements to them.

This paper discusses the differences between IPSAS 23 and IAS 20 and suggests areas for improvement in both standards on recognition, presentation, and some disclosures.

The methodology used in this paper is the comparative analysis of financial reporting requirements between IPSAS 23 and IAS 20. A desk work research has been conducted to thoroughly compare the two standards and suggest areas for improvement in both standards.

The paper is beneficial to professional accountants as it provides the ‘gaps’ existing in the IPSAS 23 and IAS 20 and presenting improvements to plug the ‘gaps’. No similar attempts have been published hitherto in the financial reporting literature.

Keywords: IPSASs, IFRSs, IASs, Revenue from non-exchange transactions, exchange transactions, recognition, presentation, some disclosures

Suggested Citation:

Njaala, Papias, Comparative Analysis of International Public Sector Accounting Standard 23 and International Accounting Standard 20 (October 31, 2015). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, 2015, Vol 6, No. 20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2730597 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2730597
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Deloitte
International Accounting Standard 20: Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance. International Public Sector Accounting Standard Board (IPSASB (2011a) International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS) 1: Presentation of Financial Statements
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSASs) Summary. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) , volume 23 Posted: 2011
Scope of the Applicability of IFRSs, IPSASs and IFRSs for SMEs in Tanzania Posted: 2009
Crossref
About the author
Crossref
Mr
He previously worked as Assistant Accountant with Bahari Beach Hotel in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and as a Senior Internal Auditor with Mzumbe University in Morogoro Tanzania. He is currently working as Assistant Lecturer (in Accounting, Finance and related subjects) with Institute of Accountancy Arusha (IAA) in Arusha
Papias Njaala was awarded his Advanced Diploma in Accountancy (ADA) from the Institute of Finance Management (IFM)
Load more
1 Citations
Anders Bornhall , Sven-Olov Daunfeldt , Niklas Rudholm
Sleeping Gazelles: High Profits But No Growth
SWPS 2013-10 · 34 Pages · Posted: 24 Feb 2016 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,850
RANK
225,151
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Corporate Finance & Governance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies