Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Teaching Accounting Ethics: A Problem-Based Learning Approach

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2016

35 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2016

Miriam Gerstein

Brooklyn College

Esther Winter

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Sarah Hertz

State University of New York (SUNY), Empire State College

Date Written: February 13, 2016

Abstract

Research has shown problem-based learning (PBL) to be an effective learning method in a variety of ways. This paper discusses the merits of implementing PBL in college accounting classrooms to teach ethics effectively. This paper reviews literature on the use of PBL in business and non-business areas and discusses how these research findings can be used to adapt the PBL pedagogy to successfully inculcate ethics into the mindset of accounting students. We found that many of the skills imparted by the PBL process, such as flexible thinking, problem solving, self-directed learning, collaboration, and intrinsic motivation, are crucial to the acquisition of ethical values. Although PBL with regard to mature learners has been studied extensively and a few papers have discussed the merits of implementing PBL in the college accounting classroom, no research has been conducted to date that has focused specifically on how it can best be adapted to effectively teach ethics in the accounting classroom. By using PBL to make the learning of business ethics more interesting and relevant to students, we educators hope to optimally influence and educate the next generation of accountants to make ethical decisions in their professional practices.

Keywords: Problem-based learning, ethics, collaborative learning, self-directed learning

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gerstein, Miriam and Winter, Esther and Hertz, Sarah, Teaching Accounting Ethics: A Problem-Based Learning Approach (February 13, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732093
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
Objectives of education for accountants: Position statement number one
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 307 - 312 Posted: 1990
D Altmyer , S Yang , K Schallenkamp , R Debeaumont
Posted: 2011
Winter Gerstein , Hertz
Teaching Accounting Ethics 126 matriculation: Evidence from the U.S. Business Education and Administration , volume 3 , p. 41 - 49
C Ames
Classrooms: Goals, structures, and student motivation
Journal of educational psychology , volume 84 , issue 3 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
855
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,682
RANK
65,075
7 Citations
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies