Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Simple Model for Cash Flow Management in Nonprofits

18 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2016 Last revised: 18 Mar 2016

Elli Malki

Financial-Tip; Rothberg International School of the HU - MA in Nonprofit Management and Leadership; Hebrew University - M.A. in Management of Nonprofit and Community Organizations

Date Written: February 13, 2016

Abstract

Cash flow management is one of the most significant challenges that face nonprofit organizations. A shortage is cash, even if it's temporary, is a major risk factor for the organization. Nevertheless the standard method for cash flow management – a cash flow projection - does not produce satisfactory results for nonprofits. The weak point of the cash flow projection method is that it ignores the inherent unpredictability of the income stream. This is a typical characteristic of the nonprofits sector, due to its reliance on income stream from donations and grants.

In this article I present a simple simulation model that overcomes this problem. The simulation model connects between the cash flow and the accounting data. It enables the organization to assess its cash flow risk, and to analyze different scenarios that can eliminate the risk.

The model was tested in several nonprofit organizations, and the article presents its implementation in one of them.

Keywords: cash flow, nonprofits, financial management, budget

JEL Classification: L30, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Malki, Elli, A Simple Model for Cash Flow Management in Nonprofits (February 13, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2732052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2732052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Elli Malki
Guidelines for the Preparation of Budgets in Not-for-Profit Organizations
Pages: 22 Posted: 29 Aug 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Malki
A servant of two masters: The dual role of the budget in nonprofits
Journal of International Accounting Auditing and Taxation , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 007 Posted: 2014-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
532
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,500
RANK
120,303
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies