Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Offshore Schemes as an Effective Tax Planning Tool of Enterprises’ Innovative Activities

Texas Journal on Civil Liberties and Civil Rights, Vol. 15, No. 235, 2010

Yakovets, Y. (1999). Cycles. Crises. Forecasts. Moscow: Nauka

Kondratiev, N. (1984). The Long Wave Cycle. New York: Richardson & Snyder

Shumpeter, J. (1961). The Theory of Economic Development. New York: Oxford University Press

Posted: 18 Feb 2016

Andrey Nechaev

National Research Irkutsk State Technical University (NR ISTU)

Oksana Antipina

National Research Irkutsk State Technical University (NR ISTU)

Mariya Matveeva

National Research Irkutsk State Technical University (NR ISTU)

Anna Prokopeva

National Research Irkutsk State Technical University (NR ISTU)

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

The authors explore basic tax planning tools and offshore companies use as one of the most popular methods of tax planning. The analysis of the effectiveness of the tools used to stimulate the activities of enterprises is based at economic literature review and statistical data. The authors have studied the main offshore schemes which are used in the modern world and consider offshore being effective means of tax planning. The choice of an offshore zone and offshore schemes depends primarily on the challenges that face a company. The authors have provided recommendations on further promotion of innovative activity of economic entities applying tax instruments.

Keywords: Tax Planning Tools; Taxation; Tax Regimes; Offshore; Innovative Activity

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Nechaev, Andrey and Antipina, Oksana and Matveeva, Mariya and Prokopeva, Anna, Offshore Schemes as an Effective Tax Planning Tool of Enterprises’ Innovative Activities (September 10, 2015). Texas Journal on Civil Liberties and Civil Rights, Vol. 15, No. 235, 2010, Yakovets, Y. (1999). Cycles. Crises. Forecasts. Moscow: Nauka, Kondratiev, N. (1984). The Long Wave Cycle. New York: Richardson & Snyder, Shumpeter, J. (1961). The Theory of Economic Development. New York: Oxford University Press, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2733530
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies