Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Expectation Differences Among Stakeholders in the Financial Valuation Fitness of Auditors

33 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2016

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: July 1, 2015

Abstract

One of the most salient concerns in contemporary auditing is fair value, and the grasp auditors have on the topic. This research directly contributes to the current call for auditors to expand the breadth and depth of audit aptitude in a changing business landscape while maintaining the trust of the investing public. The accounting profession changes and progresses through regulatory, social, political, and standard setting events (Boyce, et. al, 2012). This study reports the views of significant stakeholders in the accounting profession concerning auditor adaptation in the latest environment. The results suggest that users of financial statements believed that there was more of a necessity for further financial valuation education for auditors than accounting practitioners or accounting academics.

Keywords: Valuation, Risk, Fair Value, Expectation Gap, Auditing

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

DiGabriele, James A., The Expectation Differences Among Stakeholders in the Financial Valuation Fitness of Auditors (July 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2734944 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2734944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M Epstein , &amp; M Geiger
Recent evidence of the expectation gap
Journal of Accountancy , volume 177 , issue 1 , p. 60 - 66 Posted: 1994
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820), Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Posted: 2009
A G Fink
How To Design Survey Studies Posted: 2003
Crossref
The Accounting Profession: Major Issues Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
302
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
230,052
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies