Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Interruptions in the Accounting Workplace

The CPA Journal, Vol. 82 (May)

Posted: 22 Feb 2016 Last revised: 23 Feb 2016

James H. Long

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Jonathan D. Stanley

Auburn University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

CPAs are frequently interrupted while they complete work-related tasks. The authors surveyed 79 accounting professionals, 85% of whom indicated that they are interrupted by e-mails, instant messages, phone calls, or interpersonal (that is, face-to-face) interactions at least once per hour. Research from a broad array of professional and academic disciplines has documented that task interruption negatively impacts task performance, both in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. Furthermore, research indicates that individuals are largely overconfident in their ability to manage the negative consequences of task interruption. These findings have important implications for CPAs because competitive market and regulatory pressures require them to perform tasks efficiently and effectively. This article describe the nature of task interruption in the accounting workplace and documents accountants’ self-identified preferred and actual responses to task interruption. It also describes several best practices that CPAs can employ to manage the negative effects of task interruption.

Keywords: task interruption, interruption, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Long, James H. and Stanley, Jonathan D., Managing Interruptions in the Accounting Workplace (2012). The CPA Journal, Vol. 82 (May), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735518
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies