Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Head of Household: Rethinking the Taxation of Single Parents

Tax Law Review

47 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2016 Last revised: 14 Jun 2021

Jacob Goldin

Stanford Law School

Zachary D. Liscow

Yale University - Law School

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

Under current law, unmarried taxpayers with children can take advantage of the head of household filing status (HHFS) to reduce their federal income taxes. We argue that the design of the filing status is largely obsolete, geared toward alleviating a “marriage penalty” in the tax code that is much less important than when the filing status was first established. At the same time, the growth in the fraction of Americans raising children outside of traditional two-parent households has dramatically raised the cost of the filing status to the fisc.

In this article, we highlight two features of the design of HHFS that undermine its goal of providing support to single parent households. First, because it is designed as a filing status, HHFS provides a larger tax break to high-income taxpayers than to low-income ones: in 2011 HHFS saved qualifying taxpayers in the 25th percentile of the income distribution approximately $23 a year compared to approximately $1,573 a year for qualifying taxpayer in the 75th income percentile. Second, the tax savings provided by HHFS bear no relation to the number of children a taxpayer supports, even though taxpayers supporting more children would likely benefit more from child-related subsidies than taxpayers supporting a single child. We propose reforming HHFS by replacing it with an expanded child tax credit for single parents and estimate that a revenue neutral reform along these lines would support a refundable tax credit of approximately $294 per child for households headed by single parents.

Keywords: Head of Household, Federal Income Tax, Taxation of the Family, Tax Reform

Suggested Citation:

Goldin, Jacob and Liscow, Zachary D., Beyond Head of Household: Rethinking the Taxation of Single Parents (March 1, 2017). Tax Law Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2735874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2735874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
263
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,417
RANK
265,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies