Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequence of Accounting Standards In The Hotel Industry: Lobbying Arguments Versus Expected Impact

European Accounting and Management Review, Issue 3

26 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2016

Nuria Arimany

University of Vic

M Angels Fito

Independent

Neus Orgaz

Independent

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Accounting standards generate economic consequences that can be either intended or unintended. European and US accounting regulators have proposed to capitalize operating leases so that future payments derived from lease contracts are accounted for as debt. As operating leases are an important source of funding for the hotel industry, the sector has lobbied against the proposal. This paper analyses the economic impact on the hotel business of operating lease capitalization, using both hotel operators’ perceptions and quantitative analyses of the expected consequences. Results show that the arguments presented in the hotels’ comment letters are confirmed by the impact predicted. While hotels do not believe that the new standard will improve financial information quality (the intended economic consequence), they expect an increase in debt and reduced profitability (the unintended economic consequences), which may affect their strategies. An early response to this new standard is proposed in order to avoid unintended effects.

Keywords: operating leases, hotels, economic consequences, business strategy, lobby

Suggested Citation:

Arimany, Nuria and Fito, M Angels and Orgaz, Neus, Economic Consequence of Accounting Standards In The Hotel Industry: Lobbying Arguments Versus Expected Impact (2015). European Accounting and Management Review, Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737293
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
V Beattie , K Edwards , A Goodacre
The impact of constructive operating lease capitalization on key accounting ratios
Accounting and Business Research , volume 28 , p. 233 - 254 Posted: 1998
Crossref
A C Beck , D Campbell , P J Shrives
Content analysis in environmental reporting research: Enrichment and rehearsal of the method in a British-German context
The British Accounting Review , issue 3 , p. 207 - 222 Posted: 2010
Crossref
B Bennet , M Bradbury
Capitalizing non-cancellable operating leases
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 14 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2003
Crossref
U Brüggemann , J M Hitz , T Sellhorn
Intended and Unintended Consequences of Mandatory IFRS Adoption: A Review of Extant Evidence and Suggestions for Future Research
European Accounting Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 37 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,400
RANK
357,528
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies