Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Defense of Citizenship Taxation

15 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2016

Gene Magidenko

Independent

Date Written: October 20, 2015

Abstract

The United States is virtually alone in explicitly imposing its federal income tax obligations on all citizens, without regard to their actual residency. American citizenship-based taxation has a long history, dating back to the time of the Civil War. In recent years, particularly with the advent of the exit tax under section 877A of the Internal Revenue Code and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”), this tax regime has imposed additional burdens on American citizens residing abroad. In response, many commentators have called for Congress to change the income tax over to one based on an individual’s residency, rather than citizenship.

Although the case for switching over to residency-based taxation is not without merit, this Essay argues that citizenship-based taxation is the better option. At the same time, the present regime should be modified to lessen the burdens on American citizens residing abroad.

Keywords: Citizenship Taxation, FATCA, Exit Tax

Suggested Citation:

Magidenko, Gene, A Defense of Citizenship Taxation (October 20, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2737231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2737231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Miriam Jordan ; Wall Street , J
Federal Agents Raid Alleged 'Maternity Tourism' Businesses Catering to Chinese Posted: 2015-03-03
Id
Citizenship in this Nation is a part of a co-operative affair. Its citizenry is the country and the country is its citizenry , volume 68 , p. 268 - 69 Posted: 1967
For an excellent overview of the exit tax provision, see William L. Dentino & Christine Manolakas, The Exit Tax: A Move in the Right Direction, 3 WM. & MARY BUS
L. REV , volume 341 , p. 343 - 387 Posted: 2012
Foreign Investors Tax Act , p. 89 - 809
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Henry Lowenstein , Kathryn Kisska-Schulze
A Historical Examination of the Constitutionality of the Federal Estate Tax
William & Mary Bill of Rights Journal, Vol. 27, No. 1, 2018 · 30 Pages · Posted: 12 Apr 2019 · Downloads: 516
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,060
RANK
401,129
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies