Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Support Payments and the Personal Income Tax

(1983) 21(4) Osgoode Hall Law Journal 636-700

66 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2016

Richard Krever

University of Western Australia Law School

Date Written: December 1, 1983

Abstract

While income splitting for tax purposes is not generally allowed in the Canadian income tax system, the tax law does allow persons making support payments to transfer liability for tax on the payments to the recipient of the payments. The Canadian rule was copied from U.S. precedent even though Canada used individuals as the income tax unit while the U.S. had endorsed income splitting through adoption of a marital unit. The paper explores the conceptual arguments for and against income splitting of support payments against the benchmark framework of the goals of the progressive income tax system and notions of personal consumption. It suggests the Canadian rule is inconsistent with the benchmark principles which may explain the absence of similar rules in many other jurisdictions.

Suggested Citation:

Krever, Richard, Support Payments and the Personal Income Tax (December 1, 1983). (1983) 21(4) Osgoode Hall Law Journal 636-700, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
E G See , Suzuki
Income Tax Consequences of Separation and Divorce
Financial Support and its Tax Implications (Second Annual Institute on Continuing Legal Education Posted: 1977
Suzuki
Income Tax Consequences of Separation and Divorce
Family Law and Practice (Isaac Pitblado Lectures on Continuing Legal Education Posted: 1979
E G See , Suzuki
Income Tax Consequences of Separation and Divorce Posted: 1979
Tax Implications of Cohabitation
Unmarried Couples: LegalAspects of Cohabitation , volume 33 Posted: 1982
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
131
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,083
RANK
502,214
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies