Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Joint Winners, Separate Losers: Proposals To Ease the Sting for Married Taxpayers Filing Separately

19 Florida Tax Review 399 (2016)

Washington & Lee Legal Studies Paper No. 2016-8

67 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2016 Last revised: 31 Jan 2017

Michelle Lyon Drumbl

Washington and Lee University - School of Law

Date Written: February 29, 2016

Abstract

A taxpayer who is “considered as married” according to the Internal Revenue Code’s definition must file either a joint income tax return or an individual return using the “married filing separately” filing status. Those married taxpayers who file a separate, rather than a joint, income tax return are denied valuable benefits and subjected to a host of other unfavorable limitations. Low-income taxpayers in particular are hurt by these limitations. Certain married taxpayers, including victims of domestic violence and abandoned spouses, may have no choice but to file using the married filing separately status. Low-income taxpayers in such situations could benefit tremendously from such benefits as the earned income credit as they begin to rebuild their lives, but they are denied it.

Perhaps intentionally because of these limitations, and in other cases perhaps unintentionally by misunderstanding or mistake, some taxpayers incorrectly choose single or head of household as their filing status when the correct status should have been married filing separately. In the context of the earned income tax credit, the cost to the government of this particular type of filing status error is estimated to be between $2.3 and 3.3 billion annually. This is not terribly surprising: as currently structured, the limitations on the married filing separately filing status create an incentive for this type of taxpayer or return preparer noncompliance.

Further complicating this filing status frustration, the Code imposes limitations on how and when married taxpayers may amend to file a joint return after one or both spouses files a separate return. The Internal Revenue Service applies a restrictive reading of these limitations; whether the Service is interpreting the Code correctly remains an open question in the courts.

This article explores these married taxpayer filing status limitations and the collateral consequences thereof. It briefly outlines how and why the joint filing option developed and touches upon the concepts of the marriage bonus and the marriage penalty. It concludes by proposing three alternative models to the current limitations imposed on married taxpayers who choose to (or have no choice but to) file separate returns. In each proposal, low-income taxpayers would have increased access to the credits meant to assist them. In addition to increasing fairness, each proposal also would reduce or remove a structural incentive for taxpayer noncompliance.

Keywords: Earned Income Tax Credit, Filing Status, Poverty Law, Tax Compliance, Tax Policy

JEL Classification: H2, H24, K3, K34

Suggested Citation:

Drumbl, Michelle Lyon, Joint Winners, Separate Losers: Proposals To Ease the Sting for Married Taxpayers Filing Separately (February 29, 2016). 19 Florida Tax Review 399 (2016), Washington & Lee Legal Studies Paper No. 2016-8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Fed , Reg
Dep't of Health & Human Servs , volume 3 Posted: 2014-01-22
I R C
Crossref
Elizabeth Kneebone , Jane R Williams &amp; Natalie , Holmes
The 4.2 million figure relates to "tax returns," or tax returns filed. The authors note that this figure represents approximately 7.5 million people
Connecting EITC filers to the Affordable Care Act Premium Tax Credit, BROOKINGS INST Posted: 2015-03-18
Joan Williams , Reshaping The Work-Family , Debate
WHY MEN AND CLASS MATTER , volume 25 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,183
RANK
524,740
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies