Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting in South Africa

873 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2016

Mark B. Bunting

Rhodes University; Rhodes University - Faculty of Commerce

Date Written: February 1, 2011

Abstract

Financial Reporting in South Africa 2011 is about the application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in a South African context. The book is aimed mainly at students and lecturers. Therefore, it contains a large number of detailed examples. In order to maximise the usefulness of the book, each of these examples has a clear focus on the relevant financial reporting issue without unnecessary embellishments, diversions or complications. The examples and their accompanying commentary deal with the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements of IFRS, as well as the interaction of these with current South African tax and company law.

Keywords: IFRS, South Africa, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bunting, Mark B., Financial Reporting in South Africa (February 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2739680 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2739680
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Z Ms
who holds 35% of the ordinary shares of DEF (Pty) Ltd, which supplies more than 80% of the raw materials used by ABC Ltd in its manufacturing processes
Q Mr
who is a trustee of ABC Ltd's defined benefit pension fund, and has no other relationship with ABC Ltd
JKL (Pty) Ltd, which is an associate of GHI Ltd, which is an associate of ABC Ltd
H Mr
who is Ms R's domestic partner. Ms R is a director of ABC Ltd. Mr H has two adult children (unrelated to Ms R) who do not live with him
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,682
RANK
303,670
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies