Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deducting Expenditure to Assess the Feasibility of Constructing Capital Assets: Opinions from Inland Revenue, the High Court, and the Court of Appeal

Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 24/2016

37 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2016 Last revised: 5 Mar 2016

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Hamish McIntosh

Woodward Street Chambers

Date Written: February 29, 2016

Abstract

The TrustPower cases in the High Court and Court of Appeal addressed a question on the capital/revenue divide: in calculating its income, could the taxpayer deduct expenses incurred on feasibility studies and resource consents for projected electricity-generating dams and wind farms?

Inland Revenue Interpretation Statement IS 08/02, Deductibility of Feasibility Expenditure, influenced, even dictated, the approach of both Commissioner and taxpayer. Nevertheless, the Statement was an elephant in the room, not mentioned in the judgments in either court. In contrast, in granting leave to appeal, the Supreme Court has questioned “the proposition that the Interpretation Statement is correct in treating ‘feasibility expenditure’ as being on revenue account”.

In the High Court, Andrews J introduced several unorthodox ideas and processes of reasoning. They included the propositions (though Andrews J did not use precisely these words): (i) that expenditure on feasibility studies to weigh up whether to acquire a capital asset is deductible as a matter of revenue; and, it seems, (ii) that expenditure on or in connexion with a capital asset is deductible as revenue expenditure if one has not made a commitment to buying or constructing the asset. This article argues that authority does not support those propositions. Indeed, the Court of Appeal reversed a number of Andrews J’s holdings. The Supreme Court hearing starts on March 8, 2016.

Keywords: Income tax, capital, revenue, feasibility studies, resource consents, deductibility

JEL Classification: H20, H26

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John and McIntosh, Hamish, Deducting Expenditure to Assess the Feasibility of Constructing Capital Assets: Opinions from Inland Revenue, the High Court, and the Court of Appeal (February 29, 2016). Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 24/2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2740017
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Hallstroms Pty Ltd v Federal Commissioner of Taxation (1946) 72 CLR 634 647per Dixon J
Trustpower
Crossref
Commissioner of Taxes v Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd
PC) per Viscount Radcliffe for the Board
All ER , volume 208
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,843
RANK
226,842
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies