Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moneyball and Major League Teams Pay-Performance: A Case of Valuation Anomaly and Adaptive Market Efficiency?

33 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2016

Ramy Elitzur

University of Toronto - Rotman School of Management

Date Written: March 1, 2016

Abstract

An often discussed concept in accounting is the pay-performance relation, particularly with respect to executive compensation (known as pay-performance sensitivity, or PPS). This study explores the pay-performance relation in major league baseball teams, focusing on player payroll and its effects on teams’ performance. Moneyball (2003) exposed readers to the use of advanced analytics, or Sabermetrics, in baseball and how it improved the ‘bang for the buck’ in selecting baseball players and in managing games. It also offered the seductive idea that quantitative geeks could beat jocks in baseball personnel decisions. The study also contributes to the accounting literature on adaptive market efficiency and vanishing pricing anomalies by testing whether the use of Sabermetrics has indeed provided an unfair advantage to teams and general managers and, more importantly, whether the outing of these ideas has made the Moneyball effect go away.

Keywords: Pay-Performance, Valuation Anomalies, Adaptive Market Efficiency, MoneyBall, Baseball, Sabermetrics, Sport Analytics

JEL Classification: L83, M12, M41, C33, G14

Suggested Citation:

Elitzur, Ramy, Moneyball and Major League Teams Pay-Performance: A Case of Valuation Anomaly and Adaptive Market Efficiency? (March 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2743852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2743852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
H Abbott
The Simpsons go sabermetric
ESPN.go.com Posted: 2010-02-15
S Andrecheck
Moneyball opened our eyes, but it wasn't a game-changer
SI.Com Posted: 2010-04-28
Baseball-Reference , Com
Team Wins Posted: 2014-03-01
R M Bushman , D Zhonglan , Z Weining
Management Team Incentive: Dispersion and Firm Performance
Accounting Review , volume 91 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 45 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,093
RANK
260,475
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies