Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer Pricing Aspects of Cash Pooling Arrangements in Light of the BEPS Action Plan

10 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2016

Vikram Chand

University of Lausanne

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

The author discusses the concept, underlying commercial rationale and types of cash pooling arrangements, and then analyses and comments on the transfer pricing aspects thereof. The analysis also takes into consideration the Actions under the OECD/G20 BEPS Project related to transfer pricing. The author discusses the impact of other BEPS-related actions (domestic and treaty law changes) on cash pooling arrangements, and ultimately suggests a way forward.

Keywords: Cash Pooling, BEPS, Transfer Pricing, Profit Split Method, Loans, Guarantees, CFC, Treaty Abuse, Interest limitation

Suggested Citation:

Chand, Vikram, Transfer Pricing Aspects of Cash Pooling Arrangements in Light of the BEPS Action Plan (February 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745343 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2745343
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Action 4 Final Report
Although the OECD has already indicated that the application of a groupwide rule should not impact the ability of a group to manage its thirdparty balances through cash pooling
Discussion Draft, BEPS Action 4: Interest Deductions and Other Financial Payments
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project Posted: 2014-12-18
Crossref
&amp; Duff , Phelps
Comments Pertaining to the Public Discussion Draft on Deductibility of Interest and Other Financial Payments
OECD, Comments Received on Public Discussion Draft , volume 4 , p. 363 - 372 Posted: 2015-02
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,619
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,906
RANK
25,868
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies