Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposed Anti-Fee Waiver Regulations: A Blueprint for Waiving Fees?

Tax Management Memo, Vol. 57, p. 87, 2016

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 446

18 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2016 Last revised: 24 May 2016

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Douglas L. Longhofer

University of Central Missouri

Lena Smith

Debevoise & Plimpton - New York Office

Date Written: March 9, 2016

Abstract

In 2015, the IRS published proposed regulations to address so-called fee-waiver arrangements. The proposed regulations purport to help distinguish between service-providing members of partnerships acting in partner and non-partner capacities. This article takes the position that the proposed regulations do not achieve that purpose. The proposed regulations present entrepreneurial risk as the factor that distinguishes between partner and non-partner capacities, but they do not define that term. Because the proposed regulations claim the purpose of distinguishing between partner and non-partner capacities, one would anticipate that the regulations would require the level of risk exposure of a person acting in a partner capacity to be greater than the risk exposure of a person acting in a non-partner capacity. The Article identifies that differential as risk delta, and demonstrates how the proposed regulations fail to require any risk delta for service providers who wish to be treated as acting in a partner capacity. Because the rules do not define entrepreneurial risk and provide no basis for determining whether a service provider has accepted sufficient risk, the Article predicts that taxpayers and their advisors will look to the examples to determine whether they can achieve partner capacity. Those examples provide a blueprint for providing partnership equity to service providers, and, as such, they provide a blue print for structuring fee-waiver arrangements.

Keywords: Partner capacity, non-partner capacity, profits interest for services, section 707, fee waivers, private equity funds, real estate funds, profits-only interests, Rev. Proc. 93-27

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Longhofer, Douglas L. and Smith, Lena, Proposed Anti-Fee Waiver Regulations: A Blueprint for Waiving Fees? (March 9, 2016). Tax Management Memo, Vol. 57, p. 87, 2016, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 446, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2745332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
See Thomas , D E Greenaway &amp; Michelle , Marion
discussing inadequacies of multiple-factor tests and citing to references cited herein) , volume 73 , p. 79 - 81 Posted: 2012
See William , T Plumb
The Federal Income Tax Significance of Corporate Debt: A Critical Analysis and a Proposal, 26 Tax L
Rev , volume 369 Posted: 1971
See Barton Beebe
An Empirical Study of the Multifactor Tests for Trademark Infringement, 94 Calif
L. Rev Posted: 2006
See Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
RANK
627,303
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies