Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
After-Tax Portfolio Value: The Missing Tax Option

Journal of Investment Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Mar 2016

Andrew Kalotay

Kalotay Advisors LLC

Date Written: March 14, 2016

Abstract

After-tax performance measurement requires a rigorous definition of after-tax portfolio value. An understanding of after-tax value is also a prerequisite for effective management of taxable portfolios. We propose that the tax option, which is the right to execute tax-beneficial transactions – colloquially referred to as ‘tax-loss selling’– should be included in the value of the portfolio.

Currently there are several definitions of after-tax portfolio value in use, including ‘hold’ value and ‘intrinsic’ value. Hold value is the present value of the after-tax cash flows assuming a buy-and-hold strategy. The shortcoming of hold value is that it fails to consider tax-beneficial transactions. Intrinsic value partially corrects for this by recognizing current tax-beneficial transactions. However, intrinsic value does not consider potential future tax-beneficial transactions, i.e. the time value of the tax option. Our proposed definition of after-tax portfolio value is the sum of the hold value and the value of the tax option, including time value.

Incorporating the time value of an option is in line with contemporary finance theory. The tax option can be valued with existing industry standard methodology, incorporating investor-specific parameters such as tax rates and mortality rates.

Exercise of the tax option is a trade-off: cashflow savings in exchange for forfeited option value. Reinvestment of the proceeds automatically gives rise to a new tax option, whose value should be incorporated into the sale decision. Thus sale and reinvestment also entails swapping an in-the-money tax option for an at-the-money option. Reinvestment in a ‘like’ security ensures that the asset allocation and the risk characteristics of the portfolio remain the same.

While the concept of the tax option is applicable to any asset class, municipal bonds, which are normally held in taxable accounts, are especially suitable to illustrate the basic concepts. Due to tax-related factors the hold value of a municipal bond can substantially differ from its market price. This contributes to the complexity of the valuation of the tax option, and it can guide issuers in designing products to appeal to tax-aware investors. According to our analysis, intermediate 5% bonds callable in 10 years are ideal tax-beneficial structures. Remarkably, this coincides with the current market practice of issuing 5% non-call 10 bonds.

Unlike a conventional embedded bond option, such as a call or a put, the value of the tax option is not reflected in the market value of the portfolio. Nevertheless, this value should be recognized. Even if option-enhanced value is not practical for external reporting, it provides an added dimension for the portfolio manager by quantifying the value of potential tax-beneficial trading opportunities.

Keywords: After-tax portfolio value, After-tax performance, Option-enhanced value, Tax option, Hold value, Liquidation value, Intrinsic value, Time value, Municipal bonds, Product design

Suggested Citation:

Kalotay, Andrew, After-Tax Portfolio Value: The Missing Tax Option (March 14, 2016). Journal of Investment Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2747521
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,051
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies