Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Conceptual Foundation for Management Accounting Information to Support Sustainability Strategies

Advances in Accounting, Vol. 31, No. 1, 2016

30 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2016

Saurav K. Dutta

State University of New York (SUNY) at Albany

Raef A. Lawson

Profitability Analytics Center of Excellence

David Marcinko

Skidmore College

Date Written: October 16, 2015

Abstract

This paper derives an actionable model that serves as a basis for cost variance analysis to support the pursuit of environmental and traditional financial goals within a decentralized organization. The model identifies two distinguishable departures from optimality. The first consists of what might be considered a natural outcome of pursuing the traditional economic goal of efficiency through cost-minimization, a “waste” variance. The second part consists of sustainability gains that produce societal benefit but may be incongruent with short-term economic goals, a “sustainability” variance. While elimination of waste variances can be encouraged using a traditional performance evaluation and reward structure, elimination of sustainability variances requires re-design of performance evaluation tools and reward structures. We demonstrate that differing production functions across operational units within organizations can impact the relative magnitude of the two variances. The failure to recognize and incorporate these differences can lead to inefficient allocation of resources and/or only partial fulfillment of the strategic environmental goals of the organization.

Keywords: Performance measurement, Production function, Shadow prices, Sustainability, Waste, Variance

JEL Classification: E12, C61, D61

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Saurav K. and Lawson, Raef A. and Marcinko, David, A Conceptual Foundation for Management Accounting Information to Support Sustainability Strategies (October 16, 2015). Advances in Accounting, Vol. 31, No. 1, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2748546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
K J Arrow , H B Chenery , Minhas B S Solow , R M
Capital-labor substitution and economic efficiency
Review of Economics and Statistics , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 225 - 235 Posted: 1961
Crossref
P Clarkson , L Yue , G Richardson , F Vasvari
Does it really pay to be green? Determinants and consequences of proactive environmental strategies
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 122 - 144 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Y Dissou , L Karnizova , Q Sun
Industry-level estimates of energy-capital-labor substitution with a nested CES production function
Atlantic Economic Journal , volume 42 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S K Dutta , R Lawson
Aligning performance evaluation and reward system with corporate sustainability goals
Journal of Cost Management , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 15 - 23 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,888
RANK
196,412
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies