Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 3 W's (Who, What, & When) of Estate Tax Penalties and Liability

Real Estate, Probate, and Trust Law Reporter, Volume 54, No. 2.

21 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2016

Nikki L. Laing

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Why should the typical lawyer be concerned with staying abreast of federal estate tax laws? The recent increases in the exemption amount have resulted in fewer estates being required to file an estate tax return. Only attorneys who provide services to the very wealthy need bother with staying up to date on federal estate tax laws, right? Not so! Despite the estate tax exemption being higher than ever, the number of federal estate tax return filings is actually on the rise. Even when a lawyer does not anticipate ever accepting an engagement to prepare an estate tax return, it may be reasonable to assume that he or she might, at some point, represent a surviving spouse, personal representative, or beneficiary of an estate that is subject to the federal estate tax. In that event, it is imperative for the lawyer to be aware of the federal estate laws that could affect his or her client. This article addresses some general concepts and recent cases regarding penalties and liability in the context of the federal estate tax and describes the “Who,” “What,” and “When” of some issues that might be encountered by surviving spouses, executors, administrators, beneficiaries, and heirs.

Keywords: estate tax, texas, liability, penalty, defense, transferee liability, fiduciary liability

Suggested Citation:

Laing, Nikki, The 3 W's (Who, What, & When) of Estate Tax Penalties and Liability (2016). Real Estate, Probate, and Trust Law Reporter, Volume 54, No. 2., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2750629
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Treas. Reg. § , volume 301 , issue 2 , p. 6651 - 6652
Crossref
Treas. Reg. § , volume 301 , issue 3 , p. 6651 - 6652
Crossref
I R C
Crossref
I R C
, volume 6662
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,535
RANK
383,022
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies