Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determining the Importance Level of Accounting Information for Investors’ Decision Making

Int. Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences (IJARBSS), vol.6, no.2, pp.136-152, 2016

17 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2016

Melis Ercan

Istanbul University

Emrah Önder

Istanbul University - School of Business - Department of Quantitative Techniques

Date Written: February 18, 2016

Abstract

The aim of this study was to determine the precedence order of the accounting information (factors) influencing choice of investment, to derive the relative weight of each factor and to identify differences and similarities in such factors between accounting experts and finance experts. Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) methodology was used for the outranking of accounting information (Baker & Haslem, 1973) including future economic outlook of the company, quality of management, future economic outlook of the industry in which the firm is a part, expected future growth in sales, financial strength of the company, expected future percentage growth in the company’s earnings per share, reputation of the company, rate of return the company earn on its assets, ease with which the company can sell its assets in case of failure, size of the company, expected future level of long-term interest rate on corporate bonds, value of a share of stock based on the company’s accounting records (book value) etc. The questionnaires were answered by accounting and finance experts. In this study, subjective opinions of accounting and finance experts turn into quantitative form with Analytic Hierarchy Process. Results of this study can be used by investors, Ministry of Economy, finance, accounting, business and economy students, professionals and academicians etc.

Keywords: Accounting, Information, Finance, Investors, Analytic Hierarchy Process, Multi Criteria Decision Making

JEL Classification: M40, G11, D81

Suggested Citation:

Ercan, Melis and Önder, Emrah, Determining the Importance Level of Accounting Information for Investors’ Decision Making (February 18, 2016). Int. Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences (IJARBSS), vol.6, no.2, pp.136-152, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2752866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
R A Nagy , R W Obenberger
Factors Influencing Individual Investor Behavior , volume 50 , p. 63 - 68 Posted: 1994-08
Crossref
T L Saaty
How to Make Decision: The Analytic Hierarchy Process
European Journal of Operational Research , volume 48 , p. 9 - 26 Posted: 1990
Crossref
T L Saaty
Decision Making with the Analytic Hierarchy Process
Int. J. Services Sciences , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 98 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T L Saaty , L G Vargas
Models, Methods, Concepts & Applications of the Analytic Hierarchy Process , volume 34 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
300
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,920
RANK
231,675
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies