Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Supercharged IPOs and the Up-C

88 University of Colorado Law Review 913 (2017)

BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-03

48 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 15 Nov 2021

Gladriel Shobe

Brigham Young University - J. Reuben Clark Law School

Date Written: March 24, 2016

Abstract

The “supercharged IPO,” a new and increasingly popular financial transaction, has fundamentally changed the nature of IPOs for many companies. Traditionally, an IPO was a tax nonevent for the company and the owners, meaning it created no tax liability for either. Through creative but questionable tax planning, companies have found a way to do better than this by effectively generating a negative tax liability for the company and its owners. These transactions have received substantial attention from practicing lawyers, investment bankers, and journalists, and even briefly caught the attention of Congress, yet they have attracted surprisingly little scrutiny from scholars. The attention they have received has failed to consider the different types of supercharged IPOs, resulting in misguided analyses and conclusions regarding these transactions. This Article examines the costs and benefits of the different types of supercharged IPOs to show that some of these transactions have greater tax benefits than scholars have realized. It places a particular emphasis on the Up-C, a structure with the greatest tax benefits, which scholars have overlooked even though it is by far the most common, and increasingly popular, form of supercharged IPO. A closer examination of the Up-C reveals that this structure produces tax benefits that are not justified by the regulations that supposedly allow them.

Keywords: Up-C, Tax Receivable Agreement, TRA, Supercharged IPO, Tax, IPO

Suggested Citation:

Shobe, Gladriel, Supercharged IPOs and the Up-C (March 24, 2016). 88 University of Colorado Law Review 913 (2017), BYU Law Research Paper No. 17-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
A new innovation on the IPO landscape has emerged in the last two decades, allowing owner-founders to extract billions of dollars from newly public companies. These IPOs-labeled supercharged IPOs-have been the subject of widespread debate and controversy , volume 307 Posted: 2014
Amy S See , Elliot
85 percent) of any tax benefits Newco-C realizes from the asset basis step-up produced by these sales of old partnership/LLC common units to Newco-C
IPO Agreements that Shift Basis of Step-Up to Sellers Proliferate, 132 TAX NOTES , volume 334 Posted: 2011
Although the vast majority of TRAs adhere to the 85 percent standard, some supercharged IPOs use a different formulation
Virgin Mobile USA Inc., Registration Statement (Form S-1) Posted: 2007-05-01
See Fleischer & Staudt, supra note 1, at 311; Elliot, supra note 2, at 334 (explaining that some people describe tax receivable agreements as
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
40,306
RANK
2,805
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brigham Young University J. Reuben Clark Law School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies