Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Environmental Accounting Concept and Reporting Practice: Evidence from Banking Sector of Bangladesh

26 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2016 Last revised: 28 Aug 2017

Md. Abdul Kaium Masud, PhD

Noakhali Science and Technology University

Mohammad Hossain

Uttara University, Bangladesh

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

The study is designed to understand and investigate the practical situation and concept of the Environmental Accounting and Reporting (EAR) of twelve Bangladeshi banking companies for the year 2010 to 2014 by annual report. The reports pointed that most of the banks of the study are making efforts to provide environmental information on a voluntary basis, which are qualitative and quantitative in nature. The result of the study found that ninety two (92%) percent sample banks disclosed environmental information. Moreover, the research findings portrayed that more than ninety percent (90%) banks disclosed qualitative information whereas, sixty percent (60%) banks disclosed quantitative information in the annual report. The research finding also revealed that environmental accounting and reporting practices by the banking companies’ are satisfactory in Bangladesh. The research paper suggested a mandatory framework of EAR and the government pressure, to the banking sector to publish mandatory environmental disclosure in their annual report.

Keywords: Environmental Accounting; Environmental Protection; Climate Change; Reporting; Annual Report; Bank; Disclosure

JEL Classification: M10, M14, G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Masud, Md. Abdul Kaium and Hossain, Mohammad, Environmental Accounting Concept and Reporting Practice: Evidence from Banking Sector of Bangladesh (January 20, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2754114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2754114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Bangladesh Bank
Quarterly Review Report on Green Banking Activities of Banks & Financial Institutions and Green Refinance Activities of Bangladesh Bank. Sustainable Finance Department Posted: 2015
Bangladesh Bank
Annual Report on Green Banking. Green Banking Wing Posted: 2012
A R Belal , M Momin
Corporate Social Reporting (CSR) in Emerging Economies: A Review and Future Direction Posted: 2009
A R Belal , D Owen
The Views of Corporate Managers on the Current State of and Future Prospects for, Social Reporting in Bangladesh: An Engagement Based Study
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 472 - 494 Posted: 2007
Load more
1 Citations
Md. Masud , Seong Bae , Jong Kim
Analysis of Environmental Accounting and Reporting Practices of Listed Banking Companies in Bangladesh
Sustainability , volume 9 , issue 10 , p. 1717 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,164
RANK
183,540
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies