Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Fallacy of Adjusting Valuation for Growth and Inflation

Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2016-1027

61 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2016 Last revised: 7 Oct 2016

Richard A. Booth

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law; ECGI

Date Written: March 28, 2016

Abstract

It has become almost standard practice in Delaware appraisal proceedings for the courts to adjust discount rates downward by the projected rate of inflation and GDP growth so as to reflect the prospect of higher future returns because of these factors. Since the value of a business varies inversely with the discount rate, the result of applying lower discount rates is that appraisal plaintiffs enjoy larger awards. But these adjustments to discount rates determined under the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) are wholly erroneous. They reflect a basic misunderstanding of CAPM as well as the discounted cash flow (DCF) method of valuation.

First, these adjustments ignore the fact that returns from both inflation and growth are already built into the market rate of return as determined under CAPM since that rate is derived from historical averages that include both inflation and growth. Thus, to subtract these components of the required rate of return from the discount rate is to negate the model itself.

Second, to adjust the discount rate because of the prospect of growth reflects a misunderstanding of cash flow as a measure of return. Ordinarily, growth requires reinvestment of some portion of available cash. But cash flow is a measure of the potential for distributions to investors. If cash is used to grow the business, it cannot also be distributed to investors. Thus, it is wrong to adjust the discount rate for growth without also adjusting return (as measured by cash flow) for capital spending. If both such adjustments are made, the resulting valuation is unaffected (except where growth opportunities offer rates of return higher than the cost of capital).

The result of these errors is to increase values found in appraisal proceedings, to raise deal prices, and to encourage litigation, all to the ultimate detriment of stockholder wealth. The simple solution is to require appraisal plaintiffs to demonstrate – by company-specific evidence – that the subject company has identified and can exploit investment opportunities that will yield returns in excess of its cost of capital – economic rents – for some determinable period of time. But it is never appropriate to adjust for growth or inflation in perpetuity as many courts have recently ruled.

Keywords: discount rate, growth, inflation, GAAP earnings, cash flow, capital asset pricing model, CAPM, appraisal, economic rents

JEL Classification: B2, D46, D92, E2, E3, E4, G1, G3, K22, M4

Suggested Citation:

Booth, Richard A., The Fallacy of Adjusting Valuation for Growth and Inflation (March 28, 2016). Villanova Law/Public Policy Research Paper No. 2016-1027, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755523 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2755523
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Elroy Dimson , Paul Marsh , Mike Staunton
Equity Premia Around the World
Pages: 19 Posted: 8 Oct 2011 Last revised: 19 Mar 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aswath Damodaran
Equity Risk Premiums (ERP): Determinants, Estimation and Implications - A Post-Crisis Update
Pages: 86 Posted: 24 Oct 2009 Last revised: 20 Feb 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Tim Koller
VALUATION: MEASURING AND MANAGING THE VALUE OF COMPANIES 244-45
Jeremy J Siegel
) (finding ERP of 5.36% based on period from 1802 to 2004 and recommending reliance on forward-looking estimates of real return rather than historical data)
ANALYSTS J , volume 61 Posted: 2005-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,154
RANK
349,147
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies