Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CSR Reporting Practices in Indonesia: A Case Study of Companies Listed on the Sri-Kehati Index

6 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2016

Epameinondas Katsikas

University of Kent

Siti Czafrani

Department of Accounting, University of Indonesia

Date Written: March 28, 2016

Abstract

CSRR has become a widespread practice amongst companies to discharge their public accountability about CSR practices. In order to perfectly perform public accountability, a high-quality CSRR practices involving comprehensive disclosure of ‘vision and goals’, ‘management approach’, and ‘performance indicators’ on each of the CSR items is required. CSRR regulations, both voluntary and mandatory, have therefore emerged in order to assist companies in discharging their public accountability.

CSRR is expected to be of higher quality for companies listed on SRI indices as these companies are believed to have a high ethical commitment in doing business. However, few studies have examined the quality of CSRR disclosure by SRI index participants. Moreover, these studies have been largely conducted within the context of developed countries and fail to consider the impact of CSRR regulations on CSRR quality. This research thus attempts to address these gaps by examining the influence of regulations on CSRR quality for companies listed on the Indonesian SRI-Kehati index.

This study adopts a case study design involving two mining companies on the SRI-Kehati index. Employing a documentary analysis and content analysis methodology, it is demonstrated that the CSRR quality of these companies increased following the development of mandatory and voluntary CSRR regulations in Indonesia. The findings also indicate that similar companies have an identical quality and practice of CSRR.

Keywords: CSR, CSRR, Accountability, CSRR Regulations, Mandatory, Voluntary, SRI

Suggested Citation:

Katsikas, Epameinondas and Pratiwi, Siti, CSR Reporting Practices in Indonesia: A Case Study of Companies Listed on the Sri-Kehati Index (March 28, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755610 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2755610
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
307,614
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies