Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Pragmatic-Constructivist Approach to Risk Management

Lueg, R., & Knapik, M. 2016. Risk management with management control systems: a pragmatic constructivist perspective. Corporate Ownership & Control, 13(3): 70-81.

29 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2016

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Magdalena Janiak

Aarhus University

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

Purpose: We address the issue that calculative practices build on socially constructed facts that have both subjective and objective components. We take a pragmatic-constructivist stance to explore how such a tool might be integrated in actor-based Management Control Systems Using risk management as an example. We propose a conceptual framework and a research agenda that accounts for actorship (Nørreklit, 2013) beyond numerical facts.

Methodology: This paper is conceptual and draws on secondary literature.

Findings: Our framework highlights the non-linear, iterative nature of integrating calculative practices that specifically require complex reflection concerning the [1] validation if possibilities are factual (combining subjective and numerical data), [2] the elimination of illusions and sur-realities through constructive conflict/dialectical management, and [3] the co-construction of organization-wide topoi (causality and pertinent accounting practices).

Limitations: We emphasize that the pragmatics in our approach dictate that construct causality is not universal, so that actors have to be reflective when applying this framework.

Originality: Our research furthers practice research on calculative practices through the development of a prescriptive rather than descriptive framework. It also offers propositions that future case study researchers can use.

Keywords: Management control systems, risk management, pragmatic constructivism; calculative practice, practice theory

JEL Classification: M10

Suggested Citation:

Lueg, Rainer and Janiak, Magdalena, A Pragmatic-Constructivist Approach to Risk Management (March 1, 2015). Lueg, R., & Knapik, M. 2016. Risk management with management control systems: a pragmatic constructivist perspective. Corporate Ownership & Control, 13(3): 70-81., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2755513
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: The role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
Crossref
O A Albertsen , R Lueg
The Balanced Scorecard's missing link to compensation: a literature review and an agenda for future research
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 465 Posted: 2014
S Alhawari , L Karadsheh , A N Talet , E Mansour
Knowledge-based risk management framework for information technology project
International Journal of Information Management , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 65 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,779
RANK
286,507
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies