Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Non-Residents under Income Tax Law of Pakistan

81 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2016

Basil Siddique

Federal Board of Revenue (AJK Government); Nottingham Trent University - Nottingham (Trent) Law School, Students

Date Written: March 1, 2014

Abstract

Every enactment of law has some specific purpose. The present Income Tax Law of Pakistan, i.e. Income Tax Ordinance, 2001, herein after referred as ‘Ordinance’, was promulgated in Pakistan in 2002 with effect from 1st day of July 2002. Earlier the Income Tax matters, in this part of the world, were governed by the Income Tax Ordinance, 1979. Examining the intent of the legislature for the Income Tax Law, mens or sentential legis , the aim of enactment was/is to charge, levy and collect tax on income of persons all over Pakistan. Inclusively defining the terms “Income”, and exhaustively explaining the meanings of “Person”, the Ordinance, then lays down principles of charging, levying and collecting taxes on income of persons. These principles, through the study of the Ordinance in general and the provision of Section 80 of the Ordinance in particular, manifest three categories to be treated as persons under the Income Tax Law of Pakistan: 1. An Individual; 2. A Company or Association of Persons incorporated, formed, organized or established in Pakistan or elsewhere; 3. The Federal Government, a Foreign Government, a Political Sub-Division of a Foreign Government, or a Public International Organization.

It qualifies attention that incidence of taxation of these categories varies with the factor of residence in Pakistan, whether the taxpayer is Resident or it is a Non-Resident. The test of residence of an Individual, revolves around a question of his aggregate stay in Pakistan in a Tax Year , while for the second category listed at serial number 2 above, the test is conducted on the basis of their “control and management affairs” whether wholly and exclusively situated in Pakistan or not and also on the basis of “Permanent Establishment” in relation to that person. Based on the principles of residence, the chargeability of tax then, varies under the Income Tax Law of Pakistan, with the factor of taxpayer’s residential status.

The present paper, An Analysis of Taxability of Non-Residents under Income Tax Law of Pakistan” is a thesis towards completion of Advanced Diploma in International Taxation (ADIT) of the Chartered Institute of Taxation, UK. It is also an attempt to add to the academic taxation literature, exploring and analyzing the important provisions of Pakistan’s Income Tax Law with respect to taxability of Non-Residents, based on their residential status, together with identifying the bottlenecks and proposing necessary amendments in the same.

Keywords: Taxes, Income, Non-Residents, Double Taxation, Jurisdictions, Arm's Length

Suggested Citation:

Siddique, Basil, Taxation of Non-Residents under Income Tax Law of Pakistan (March 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2766138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2766138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Andrea Amatucci , Eusebio Gonzalez , Christoph Trzaskalik
International Tax Law Posted: 2006
Basil Siddique
Dictionary of Income Tax Ordinance -2001
Suhail Academy Posted: 2008
A Bryan , Garner
Black's Law Dictionary Posted: 2004
Dinesh Vyas , Kanga , Palkhivala , Vyas
The Law and Practice of Income Tax, Volume I and II, Ninth Edition Posted: 2004
Load more
2 Citations
Kateryna YEFREMOVA , Olha DMYTRYK , Liudmyla TOVKUN
Features of taxation of digital services in Ukraine and the EU: a comparative legal analysis
Economics. Finances. Law , volume 11/2023 , issue - , p. 6 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Tyhran VARSHAMIAN
Features of the special principles of taxation of services from the IT sector
Economics. Finances. Law , volume 8 , issue - , p. 33 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
240
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,011
RANK
291,291
2 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies