Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Implications of Accounting for Human Resources Using a Liability Model

Journal of Human Resource Costing & Accounting, Vol. 12 No. 2, pp. 124-137, 2008

32 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2016 Last revised: 9 May 2016

Herman Theeke

Central Michigan University

John B. Mitchell

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to: discuss how reporting under a human resource liability paradigm fits into the traditional accounting framework of contingent liabilities; examine the financial effects of such reporting on market valuation and internal planning; and explore measurement of human resource liabilities.

Design/methodology/approach – From reviews of financial effects of human resource liability reporting the paper logically extends those results to support the proposed paradigm.

Findings – Accountants already recognize some liabilities resulting from future expenses for past labor. A fuller treatment of expected costs from human resource polices would provide external and internal financial analyst with different and useful information. Recognizing these future expenses will depress asset turnover and return on asset calculations, while increasing estimates of risk such as higher debt ratio, lower cash flow coverage and higher degrees of operating leverage.

Originality/value – The paper provides support for the feasibility and need to adopt a human resource liability paradigm for valuing, reporting and managing human resources.

Keywords: human resources, human resource liabilities, contingent liabilities, financial ratios

JEL Classification: E2, J3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Theeke, Herman and Mitchell, John B., Financial Implications of Accounting for Human Resources Using a Liability Model (June 1, 2008). Journal of Human Resource Costing & Accounting, Vol. 12 No. 2, pp. 124-137, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2767865 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2767865
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
I Abeysekera
Accounting for intellectual assets and liabilities
Journal of HRCA: Human Resource Costing and Accounting , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 7 - 14 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J M Abowd
The effect of wage bargains on the stock market value of the firm
The American Economic Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 774 - 800 Posted: 1989
F Afiouni
Human resource management and knowledge management: A road map toward improving organizational performance
Journal of American Academy of Business , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 124 - 155 Posted: 2007
E Amir
The market valuation of accounting information: The case of postretirement benefits other than pensions
The Accounting Review , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 703 - 727 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
184
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,256
RANK
375,525
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Labor: Personnel Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies