Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the IRS Wealth Squad

CCH Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, December-January 2016

7 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2016

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: Januarry 15, 2016

Abstract

The Wealth Squad pursues a comprehensive approach to auditing high-income taxpayers by expanding the examinations beyond the individual income tax return to include examinations of related and controlled entities. A typical Wealth Squad examination consists of a key case, generally the taxpayer’s Form 1040, and related income tax returns for which the taxpayer has a controlling interest in the entity and for which a significant compliance risk may exist. These entities may include partnerships, trusts, S corporations, C corporations, private foundations, etc. The examination often includes other individual income tax returns affected by flow-through adjustments made on the tax returns for partnerships and S corporations controlled by the key taxpayer.

The initial IDRs issued in connection with the commencement of a Wealth Squad examination will seem overwhelming to even the most seasoned tax practitioners. The IRS has somewhat standardized their information requests in these matters by seeking everything imaginable with respect to the taxpayer under examination and all related entities.

The purpose of the Wealth Squad is to bring together a team of IRS specialists to coordinate the compliance review and, if necessary, detailed examination of complex returns of high-wealth individuals and their related entities. Although it is generally advisable to attempt to resolve any examination at the earliest opportunity, the complexity inherent within most Wealth Squad examinations often precludes any realistic ability to achieve a prompt resolution.

Practitioners must respect the detailed nature of these examinations. When facing a Wealth Squad examination notice, prepare, prepare, prepare… and then prepare some more.

Keywords: IRS examination, global high wealth industrry, IRS wealth squad, IRS dispute,

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., Evaluating the IRS Wealth Squad (Januarry 15, 2016). CCH Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, December-January 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2771183 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2771183
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
TPIs greater than $199,999 but less than $5 million. In addition, the SB/ SE Division is responsible for addressing the compliance of high-income individual nonfilers and partnership investors falling under the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 (TEFRA)
LB&I outsourced 18 Wealth Squads in FY , volume 12 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Id
Code Sec. 7602, et seq
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,184
RANK
618,773
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies