Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 21st Century Fight Over Who Sets the Terms of the Charity Property Tax Exemption

Exempt Organization Tax Review, Vol. 77, No. 4, 2016

20 Pages Posted: 2 May 2016

Evelyn Brody

Chicago-Kent College of Law

Date Written: April 2016

Abstract

Turning from the substantive issue of defining charity, this article considers the “who” question by examining the roles of the courts, legislatures, municipalities, and charities in determining exemption and payments in lieu of taxes. The three covered topics – constitutional power, statutory interpretation, and the “intermediate sanctions” of user fees and PILOTs – braid together to form the procedural framework for the financial relationship between nonprofit property owners and the taxing jurisdictions that host them. Change the parameters of one, and you change the others. Staying off the rolls or minimizing the tax bite often results from compromise – whether at the state constitutional level; in state statutes; as a matter of assessment; or through negotiation with local governmental bodies. But such an application of a multi-level framework for mischief leads to legal incoherence. The article begins with the knockdown, drag-out separation-of-powers fight that has arisen in Illinois and Pennsylvania: Which branch, the judicial or legislative, defines “charities” granted exemption by the state constitution?

Next up is the more mundane world of statutory interpretation, where even here courts second-guess the legislature. A June 2015 decision by the New Jersey tax court exemplifies what could be view as “passive-aggressive separation of powers,” when the court basically says, “Surely the legislature could not have meant this entity (or this use of property) to qualify as charity.” This latest decision not only seems to render all “sophisticated centers of medical care” in New Jersey taxable, but also is causing sleepless nights for Princeton University: The same judge is hearing a challenge to the university’s exemption brought by local taxpayers.

New Jersey’s January 2016 proposed legislation fell a pocket veto short of enactment: It would have imposed a formulary community-service fee on nonprofit hospitals. Legislative efforts are again underway. Perhaps such a third-way solution might become more common. Voluntary agreements for payments in lieu of taxes are literally all over the map, from Boston’s revamped comprehensive PILOT program to a Florida appellate court’s striking of a PILOT program as inconsistent with statutory exemption. Will the people’s branch get the last word after all?

Keywords: tax policy, nonprofit organizations, property tax, tax exemption

Suggested Citation:

Brody, Evelyn, The 21st Century Fight Over Who Sets the Terms of the Charity Property Tax Exemption (April 2016). Exempt Organization Tax Review, Vol. 77, No. 4, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2773866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Geoffrey Propheter
Property Tax Exemptions for Nonprofit Hospitals: What are They Worth? Do They Earn Them? Evidence from New York City
Public Budgeting & Finance, Vol. 39, Issue 2, pp. 3-22, 2019 · 20 Pages · Posted: 3 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 1
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,747
RANK
330,157
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies