Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Office Managing Partners Influence Audit Quality?

Posted: 30 May 2016

Michael J. Mowchan

Baylor University

Date Written: May 24, 2016

Abstract

This study investigates the association between the line of service (audit, tax, advisory) of Big Four office managing partners (OMPs) and both non-audit service fees and audit quality. Given that audit quality has been shown to vary across offices and because changes in office-level leadership can impact office culture, I examine the impact of the OMP’s line of service on non-audit service fees and multiple measures of audit quality. I find that when an accounting firm office changes leadership to an advisory OMP non-audit service fees increase, while audit quality suffers. These findings suggest that advisory OMPs encourage an office culture that emphasizes selling non-audit services (understates audit quality) relative to other OMPs. Overall, this study provides evidence consistent with regulators’ concerns that the recent trend toward greater advisory services at the largest accounting firms reduces their focus on providing high-quality audits, thereby leading to decreased audit quality. While these findings are robust to a battery of additional tests, caution should be exercised in overstating the regulatory implications of the observed association.

Keywords: office managing partner, audit quality, non-audit services, tone at the top, culture

Suggested Citation:

Mowchan, Michael J., Do Office Managing Partners Influence Audit Quality? (May 24, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2784285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2784285
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,466
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies