Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting Fair Value Accounting as a Magnifier of Financial Crises

Proceedings of the International Conference Sinteza 2016, Belgrade

7 Pages Posted: 31 May 2016

Vule Mizdrakovic

Singidunum University

Nemanja Stanisic

Singidunum University - Department for Business Economics

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

In an earlier paper titled ‘Mark-to-Market Accounting as a Magnifier of Financial Crises’, we advocated that fair value or mark-to-market accounting magnifies financial crises by creating a feedback loop between figures from financial reports and financial markets. We proposed a simple method for assessing how overpriced the US stock market is, which included a comparison between fixed base indexes of the S&P 500 and nominal US GDP. In this paper, we reiterate the role that fair value accounting is expected to play in both the creating and bursting of financial bubbles, putting it in the context of theories of ‘reflexivity’ and ‘almost self-fulfilling equilibria’. We reassess the level of the US stock market, showing that a substantial stock market bubble (the third in the last two decades) has been formed recently and that significant market corrections may happen in 2016.

Keywords: fair value, mark to market, financial crisis

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Mizdrakovic, Vule and Stanisic, Nemanja, Revisiting Fair Value Accounting as a Magnifier of Financial Crises (2016). Proceedings of the International Conference Sinteza 2016, Belgrade, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2786570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
A Allen , K Ramanna
Towards an understanding of the role of standard setters in standard setting
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , issue 1 , p. 66 - 90 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E Beinhocker
Reflexivity, complexity, and the nature of social science
Journal of Economic Methodology , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 330 - 342 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Bronk
Reflexivity unpacked: Performativity, uncertainty and analytical monocultures
Journal of Economic Methodology , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 343 - 349 Posted: 2013
Crossref
R Dietrich , M Harris , K Muller
The reliability of investment property fair value estimates
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 125 - 158 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,502
RANK
475,660
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies