Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Irreconcilable Differences? The FASB's Conceptual Framework and the Public Interest

International Journal of Critical Accounting, 9(5/6), 514-523.

16 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2016 Last revised: 3 Oct 2018

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

It has been shown that protecting and serving the public interest in public accounting is a myth. It has also recently been demonstrated that protecting and serving the public interest by the Securities and Exchange Commission is not the primary, or even secondary, mission of the SEC. Finally, it has been proven that is not the mission of the FASB to serve the public interest. Recently, the FASB has revised its “Conceptual Framework.” The FASB’s Conceptual Framework is “intended to serve the public interest by providing structure and direction to financial accounting and reporting to facilitate the provision of unbiased financial and related information [which] helps capital and other markets to function efficiently in allocating scarce resources in the economy and society” (emphasis added) However, since it is not the mission of either the FAF (Financial Accounting Foundation, the parent of the FASB), or the FASB to serve the public interest, whether the FASB’s Conceptual Framework can serve the public interest as intended, or whether the Conceptual Framework is incompatible with the public interest is questionable.

This paper explores the question of whether the Conceptual Framework is compatible with the public interest. The question is important to consider because if the Conceptual Framework cannot serve the public interest as intended, then it may be necessary to revise the Conceptual Framework in order to achieve its intended purpose of serving the public interest.

This is the working paper version.

Keywords: FASB, conceptual framework, public interest

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M45, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, Irreconcilable Differences? The FASB's Conceptual Framework and the Public Interest (2017). International Journal of Critical Accounting, 9(5/6), 514-523., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2789907 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2789907
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
C R Baker
What is the meaning of "the public interest"?: Examining the ideology of the American public accounting profession
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 18 , issue 5 , p. 690 - 703 Posted: 2005
C R Baker , A Burlaud
The historical evolution from accounting theory to conceptual framework in financial standards setting
CPA Journal , p. 54 - 61 Posted: 2015-08
P Bourdieu , J C Passeron
Reproduction in education, society and culture. Tr. By Richard Nice Posted: 1990
P Bourdieu
The field of cultural production: Essays on art and leisure Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,607
RANK
572,233
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies