Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of 'Fair Value' Accounting Standards to the Income Statements of Companies Listed in the Portuguese Stock Index-20 (PSI-20)

RBGN - Revista Brasileira de Gestão de Negócios, 18(59), 67-86, 2016

20 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2016 Last revised: 17 Jun 2016

Tiago Cardão-Pito

ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa

Jorge Barros

School of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 14, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – “Fair value” accounting standards are not consensual. Supporters claim that they offer a methodology to find the “correct” value of accounting items, whereas critics contend that “fair value” accounting reduces the reliability of financial statements through a complex and unpractical method based on subjective information. Still, the impacts of “fair value” accounting upon taxes and public revenues are rarely discussed.

Design/methodology/approach – The Portuguese case allows us to study taxation and public revenues. Through European Union norms, “fair value” standards have become mandatory after 2005 for companies listed in European stock-exchanges. Nevertheless, Portuguese corporate tax law was reformulated in 2010 to strongly restrict the use of “fair value” for taxation purposes. We study the use of “fair value” in the Income Statements of the largest companies listed in the Portuguese exchange between 2005 and 2012.

Findings – If Portugal had not adopted “fair value” standards, its tax revenue would have been higher. Over all analyzed years and in almost all studied companies, average “fair value” adjustments are negative. Although a statistical association between negative adjustments and the economic cycle was found, this statistical association is not very strong. Therefore, the economic cycle cannot be used as the only explanation for the use of “fair value”.

Originality/value – This paper demonstrates that discussions concerning the “fair value” accounting method must not ignore its possible impacts on government taxes and public revenue.

Keywords: Fair value, historical cost, taxes, public revenue

Suggested Citation:

Cardão-Pito, Tiago and Barros, Jorge, The Application of 'Fair Value' Accounting Standards to the Income Statements of Companies Listed in the Portuguese Stock Index-20 (PSI-20) (June 14, 2016). RBGN - Revista Brasileira de Gestão de Negócios, 18(59), 67-86, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
901
RANK
614,410
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies