Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation Without Explanation: The Federal Gift Tax

2 Appalachian J.L. 15 (2003)

Belmont University College of Law Research Paper

10 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2016

Jeffrey Kinsler

Belmont University - College of Law

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

The Federal Gift Tax is designed to implement two competing policies: to tax gifts so as to prevent taxpayers from depleting their estates (and thus evading the estate tax) with tax-free lifetime transfers; but to tax gifts at a rate lower than testamentary transfers so as to encourage taxpayers to circulate wealth during life, thereby stimulating economic growth and income tax revenue. The gift tax has always been carefully crafted to balance these competing interests. That is, until now. The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") completely perverted these two policies.' EGTRRA was sold to the public as a repeal of the death tax. While not entirely true, EGTRRA did make several major changes to the federal estate and gift tax scheme. Most importantly, EGTRRA set into motion a phase-out of the estate tax between 2002 and 2010. This phase-out has three components. First, the unified credit - the amount taxpayers may give tax-free during life and at death - is scheduled to increase from $1 million in 2002 to $3.5 million in 2009. Second, the maximum estate tax and gift tax rates are scheduled to decrease from 50% in 2002 to 45% in 2009. Third, the estate tax will be abolished on January 1, 2010. What most taxpayers were not told, however, is that the gift tax is not dead. It is scheduled to continue beyond 2010. This poses two questions. First, if the sole purpose of the gift tax is to serve as a backstop to the estate tax, what purpose will the gift tax serve in 2010, when there is no estate tax? Second, why would any taxpayer make taxable lifetime gifts in 2010, when he or she can simply wait until death to make tax-free gifts? This Article will attempt to answer these questions, which EGTRRA left unanswered.

Keywords: Federal Gift Tax, The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA"), death tax

Suggested Citation:

Kinsler, Jeffrey, Taxation Without Explanation: The Federal Gift Tax (2003). 2 Appalachian J.L. 15 (2003), Belmont University College of Law Research Paper , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Belmont University College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies