Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interpreting the European Union's IFRS Endorsement Criteria: The Case of IFRS 9

Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming

76 Pages Posted: 4 Jul 2016

Jannis Bischof

University of Mannheim - Accounting and Taxation

Holger Daske

University of Mannheim

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

EU Regulation requires that any international accounting standards (IFRS) and interpretations (IFRIC) pronounced by the IASB meet three sets of criteria before they become binding for EU-based companies: a ‘true and fair view’ criterion, a list of qualitative criteria, and a ‘European public good’ criterion. During the endorsement process, EU institutions evaluate each standard or interpretation’s compliance with these three criteria. Nevertheless, despite plenty of past endorsement decisions, there is still disagreement about a unanimous interpretation of the criteria in the literature. In this study, we interpret all three criteria against the background of European accounting law and academic accounting research. Then, the paper illustrates for the case of the new IFRS 9 standard on accounting for financial instruments how these criteria can be applied in the endorsement practice. We conclude that the standard cannot reasonably be rejected on grounds of the IAS Regulation. We also explain that the vagueness of the endorsement criteria and the inherent discretion in the eventual endorsement decision help maintain the EU’s political influence on the IASB’s standard setting ex ante.

Keywords: European Union, IFRS, Endorsement, True and Fair View, European Public Good, Bank Accounting

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bischof, Jannis and Daske, Holger, Interpreting the European Union's IFRS Endorsement Criteria: The Case of IFRS 9 (June 30, 2016). Accounting in Europe, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2803567
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
155 References
-and if so how -capital regulation might change in the light of the new accounting rules Posted: 2016
The budget is in British Pounds Posted: 2016-05
Note that only reviews of upstream cost-benefit analyses are also observable in other public policy areas
See Schipper Posted: 2010
See Giner , &amp; Arce
They find that standard setters react primarily to conceptual arguments in standard setting debates Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,130
RANK
177,685
8 Citations
155 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies