Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Plunge in Oil Price: Unravel the Pitfalls of Principle Based Impairment

15 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2016

Yohanes Handoko Aryanto

Pertamina EP

Date Written: June 23, 2016

Abstract

Oil price has a long history of fluctuation and unpredictability. In the range periods of 2003 to 2015, oil price had been significantly fluctuating. The causes of oil price fluctuation are vary, such as supply demand, market sentiment, geopolitics issues, and trading in oil futures markets. The oil price fluctuation has been significantly affecting the oil and gas accounting. Problems arise in the periods of 2014-2015, when the oil price extremely fall and the upstream oil & gas industry had to implement impairment accounting.

Based on oil and gas industries 2015 annual report, there are occurrences of different impairment accounting treatment among entities. This is because impairment is based on how the management views the future of oil price. Some management could view the plunge in oil price as a temporary event so that it is not an impairment indication, the other could view that the plunge is not temporary, thus it is an impairment indication. Furthermore, if the management assumes that the plunge in oil price as an impairment indication, there is possibility that the oil price forecast could be misused as an earning management tool.

With the variations of impairment asset practices in the oil and gas industry, question arise. Is the plunge in oil price a real impairment indication? Which financial report is true and fair, the one that recognize impairment loss or the one that does not? If the plunge in oil price viewed as an impairment indication, how to determine the fairness of oil price forecast and make sure that impairment accounting is not being misused for the purpose of earning management.

Further question arise, is recognizing an impairment loss has an impact for the investor or creditor, or perhaps non-financial statement information such as oil price sentiment and forecast has more impact in the creditor decision making? If the information of impairment has no impact in decision making, is the treatment still relevant?

Keywords: impairment, oil price, IAS 36, IFRS 6, ASC 360, ASC 932

JEL Classification: M41, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Aryanto, Yohanes Handoko, The Plunge in Oil Price: Unravel the Pitfalls of Principle Based Impairment (June 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805817
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Impair or not to Impair? Factors affecting the application of IAS 36 in Australia and the United Kingdom Posted: 2011-02
John Baffes , M. Ayhan Kose , Franziska Ohnsorge , Marc Stocker
The Great Plunge in Oil Prices: Causes, Consequences, and Policy Responses
Pages: 62 Posted: 30 Jun 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christiane Baumeister , Lutz Kilian
Forty Years of Oil Price Fluctuations: Why the Price of Oil May Still Surprise Us
CFS Working Paper, No. 525 Pages: 40 Posted: 13 Jan 2016 Last revised: 20 Mar 2024
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
British Petroleum
BP Statistical Review of World Energy Posted: 2015-06
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
422,861
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies