Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Reporting on the Financial Market in Kosovo

The Review of Financial and Accounting Studies, ISSN 1450-2812 Issue 2 (2012), page 5-9.

5 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2016

Arben Dermaku

University of Pristina

Date Written: April 2, 2012

Abstract

Kosovo is emerging from an era of totalitarian government and a collective ownership economy. Privatization is a key process of the strategy for economic renewal, though the lack of high quality financial reporting in most sectors of Kosovo’s has had severe negative consequences for economic development. Investment by both foreign and Kosovar investors is discouraged and the privatization of previously publicly owned businesses has been done without financial reports, so that the value received has often been far less than the value of the businesses. In addition, the lack of quality financial reporting has meant that it has not been possible to create a securities market so the only source of investment is through loans by banks which charge high interest rates due to the lack of competition. Strategies for the development of quality financial accounting and a security market are considered.

Suggested Citation:

Dermaku, Arben, The Impact of Financial Reporting on the Financial Market in Kosovo (April 2, 2012). The Review of Financial and Accounting Studies, ISSN 1450-2812 Issue 2 (2012), page 5-9., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805470
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
766,148
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies