Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues Arising Upon the Death of the Sole Member of a Single-Member LLC

Marquette Law Review, Vol. 99, 2016

38 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2016 Last revised: 2 Dec 2019

Philip Manns

Liberty University - School of Law

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Sole entrepreneurs overwhelmingly choose the single-member limited liability company (SMLLC) as the business entity for their operations. Consequently, simplicity of formation and operation of SMLLCs is highly desirable, both to facilitate entrepreneurship and to acknowledge that costs, lack of knowledge, bad advice, or a combination of them very often will cause sole entrepreneurs to forego professionally drafted documents and accept default SMLLC rules in the jurisdiction of formation.

The death of the sole member is always an anticipated, indeed inevitable, occurrence, so one would expect that the default statutory rules and the widely available forms for SMLLCs would address this eventuality adequately. Unfortunately, that is not the case. In this Article, we address how SMLLC organizational documents should always address the death of the sole member of an SMLLC, and we conclude that a provision for the nonprobate transfer on death of the sole member’s interest should be included. We also address the federal tax consequences of death-time transfers of SMLLC interests, and we uncover a thorny conflict between federal income taxes, which disregard the entity, and federal transfer taxes, which regard the entity.

Keywords: LLC, limited liability company, single member, probate, nonprobate, check the box, Pierre, TOD, transfer on death, income tax, estate tax, gift tax, transfer tax

JEL Classification: K00, K10, K11, K19, K20, K22, K29, K30, K34, K39, K49, M13, M10

Suggested Citation:

Manns, F. Philip and Todd, Timothy M., Issues Arising Upon the Death of the Sole Member of a Single-Member LLC (2016). Marquette Law Review, Vol. 99, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
E G See , Va , Ann
Under some state LLC statutes, nonmembers can be registered agents only if they are attorneys , volume 13 , p. 1 - 1016 Posted: 2011
A); see also Statement of Change of Registered Office and/or Registered Agent of a Limited Liability Company, Va. SCC Form LLC 1016 , volume 13 , p. 1 - 1016
E G See , Va , Ann
§ 13.1-1018.1; see also Statement of Change of the Principal Office Address of a Limited Liability Company, Va. SCC Form LLC 1018 , volume 1
E G See , Va , Ann
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
372
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,364
RANK
183,013
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies