Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compilation of Accounting Regulation in Kosovo Through Two Packages of Standards: Kosovo Accounting Standards and International Accounting Standards

Middle Eastern Finance and Economics, ISSN: 1450-2889 Issue 16 (2012), Page 122-130

Posted: 7 Jul 2016

Nexhmije Berisha

University of Prishtina

Arben Dermaku

University of Pristina

Rrustem Asllanaj

University of Prishtina

Skender Ahmeti

University of Prishtina

Date Written: January 6, 2012

Abstract

In Kosovo, the strategy of development of accounting, presented with new requirements of accounting and financial reporting, which are effective from the year 2002, such a requirement represents an excellent step towards a modern developing of financial system in our country. As such, financial reporting of our country will be comparable with financial reporting in developed countries.

This regulation does not focus merely on the legal requirements binding for keeping accounting, but expand further on the definition of unique rules for the construction of financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards (IAS).

Regulatory authorities of each country to establish rules for the implementation of national or international accounting standards and the obligation to implement them. In this case, accounting regulator enables the presentation of financial statements to be more transparent and efficient conform rules and accounting standards of our country that belong, but always appropriate, consistent with international accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting regulation, accounting standards, Kosovo Accounting Standards, financial statements, reporting standards

Suggested Citation:

Berisha, Nexhmije and Dermaku, Arben and Asllanaj, Rrustem and Ahmeti, Skender, Compilation of Accounting Regulation in Kosovo Through Two Packages of Standards: Kosovo Accounting Standards and International Accounting Standards (January 6, 2012). Middle Eastern Finance and Economics, ISSN: 1450-2889 Issue 16 (2012), Page 122-130, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805490
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies