Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creative Pricing Issues in CPA Firm Practice for Ethical and Profitable Activity

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016

17 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2016

Gregory Kordecki

Clayton State University

Maria Bullen

San Jose State University

Elizabeth Capener

San Jose State University

Date Written: July 27, 2016

Abstract

The CPA office of “yesterday” was comparatively devoid of technology, relying on extensive labor, pencil pushing, manual spreadsheets, and green-bar printouts. A few adjusting journal entries could have taken several days to apply. The office of “today” still carries the traditional breakdown of total cost into raw materials, direct labor, and overhead. Significantly different, however, is the emergence of a swing in relative percentages of each cost to the firm. Client services are frequently spelled out in engagement letters, but some CPA firms are witnessing an increasing disadvantage of retaining the generally accepted approach of billing their work performed as a function of direct labor hours at the rate of the individual(s) performing the services. With increased emphasis on technology applications in processing client needs for financial statement services, income tax returns, management consulting, and other work, overhead costs balloon over the labor costs. Accordingly, incremental true costs tend to avoid capture in the pricing formula for client work. This paper offers a creative value pricing approach as superior to any method relying on cost drivers, one which CPA firms may apply to either public or private clients.

Keywords: Creative Pricing, Fixed Fee, Hourly Billing, Value Pricing

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kordecki, Gregory and Bullen, Maria and Capener, Elizabeth, Creative Pricing Issues in CPA Firm Practice for Ethical and Profitable Activity (July 27, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Updated for all Official Releases through
Code of Professional Conduct Posted: 2014-10-25
Billing rates will still rise, CPA firms say
Accounting Office Management & Administration Report , issue 11 , p. 11 - 13 Posted: 2009-11
R J Baker
The firm of the future
Journal of Accountancy , volume 206 , issue 5 , p. 68 - 73 Posted: 2008-11
Bullen Kordecki , Capener
Creative Pricing in CPA Firm Practice 660
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,824
RANK
521,427
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies