Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working Capital Management and Its Impact on Profitability: A Case of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices (IJARAP), Vol. 12(3), p. 53-63, 2013

Posted: 25 Aug 2016

Tanushree Sharma

Manipal University

Utkarsh Rathore

Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.,

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 20, 2016

Abstract

Management of working capital is a crucial task for every manager in an organization, because it directly affects the liquidity and profitability of an organization. The present study investigates the importance of working capital management and its impact on profitability of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL). A few important ratios have been considered for highlighting the efficiency of working capital management. Pearson’s simple correlation coefficient has been applied for measuring the degree of relationship between the working capital management and profitability. The results revealed that out of eight ratios relating to working capital management, four ratios, viz., Current Ratio, Current Assets to Total Assets Ratio, Current Assets to Sales Ratio, and Cash Turnover Ratio, registered positive association with the selected profitability ratio (ROI), and the remaining ratios like Debtors Turnover Ratio, Inventory Turnover Ratio, Working Capital Turnover Ratio and Quick Ratio witnessed a negative association with the selected profitability ratio.

Keywords: Working Capital Management, Public Sector Enterprise, Profitability

JEL Classification: G30

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Tanushree and Rathore, Utkarsh, Working Capital Management and Its Impact on Profitability: A Case of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (August 20, 2016). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices (IJARAP), Vol. 12(3), p. 53-63, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2826955
 Not Available for Download
0 References
3 Citations
Diwahar Sunder Nadar
Theoretical Review of the Role of Financial Ratios
22 Pages · Posted: 11 Nov 2019 · Last revised: 21 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 8,935
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Y. Maheswari , Nalla Bala Kalyan
Inventory Management Pattern of Steel Industry in India
18 Pages · Posted: 23 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 1,653
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Anindita Chakrabarti
Capital Structure of Indian Energy Companies- A Dynamic Panel Data Approach
31 Pages · Posted: 1 Dec 2023 · Downloads: 49
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies