Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Gap in the Perception of the GAAP

American Business Law Journal, Forthcoming

41 Pages Posted: 12 Sep 2016

Israel Klein

Ariel University - Department of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: September 9, 2016

Abstract

Financial accounting is the language of the business world and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) comprise its terminology. The dictionary-like use of GAAP in business discourse conveys a conception of accounting standards as definitional rules, i.e., as rules that merely provide consensual definitions for financial discourse without affecting the content of the discourse. As such, GAAP is believed to be neutral and bias-free and consequently, promulgation of accounting standards and the content of the GAAP have not attracted much legal attention.

This article challenges the prevailing legal indifference towards the GAAP and those promulgating it. By revealing GAAP's effects on corporate behavior and on the function of many social, political and financial systems that utilize accounting parameters, this article discusses the substantive power private parties gain through the promulgation of accounting standards and how these standards imply a biased agenda that prefers the investor perspective over other contrary perspectives, thereby establishing a skewed financial perception of reality, such that subordinates the social order entirely to investors’ objectives.

While reviewing how the GAAP is perceived by the court, this article further argues that the existing legal perception of accounting standards as neutral definitional rules has yielded court rulings that relieved accounting standards promulgators from professional duties and has prevented judicial review of the standards themselves, leaving the GAAP and its promulgators practically immune to legal scrutiny.

Attention is then drawn to a possible solution presented by a recent SEC proposal to allow domestic issuers to disclose supplemental IFRS-based financial results in addition to those required by the GAAP. It is suggested that such additional financial disclosure can curtail GAAP’s hegemony, curb its promulgators and partially ease some of the existing biases of financial accounting.

Keywords: GAAP, Financial Accounting, IFRS, Law & Accounting, Law & Finance, Corporate Social Responsibility

Suggested Citation:

Klein, Israel, The Gap in the Perception of the GAAP (September 9, 2016). American Business Law Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2836803
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Cf , Tinker
supra note 101; but see Tony Tinker, Paper Prophets: An Autocritique
British Acct
REV , volume 77 Posted: 2001
Accounting Standards No. 109 (Fin. Accounting Standards Bd. 1992); International Accounting Standards Board, Preliminary Views on Financial Statement Presentation (Discussion Paper) § § 3 Posted: 2008
See Hugo Nurnberg
Conceptual Nature of the Corporate Income Tax, 36 ACCOUNTING HISTORIANS J. 31 (2009) for a discussion and summary of the different opinion , volume 148
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
264,566
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies