Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Share Value to Shared Value: Exploring the Role of Accountants in Developing Integrated Reporting in Practice

IMA (Institute of Management Accountants) – ACCA (The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) Joint Research Report, January 2016

41 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2017

Delphine Gibassier

Audencia Business School

Michelle Rodrigue

École de comptabilité, Université Laval

Diane-Laure Arjaliès

University of Western Ontario - Managerial Accounting and Control Area Group

Date Written: January 1, 2016

Abstract

Overview: The corporate reporting landscape has evolved in the last 20 years from financial reporting to sustainability reporting to “integrated reporting.” Since 2010, the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) has led the work on building the first Integrated Reporting (IR) framework, published in December 2013.

The accounting profession has played a crucial role in pushing the idea of integrated reporting forward. Now, accountants are looking at how they can best participate in IR corporate practice. This report is aimed at accountants who would like to get involved more closely, or even drive, the IR efforts within their organization.

“From Share Value to Shared Value” is the result of a joint IMA/ACCA call for research proposals. The report is based on participative observation within a leading multinational company — pilot of the IIRC — interviews with international experts, and other multinational companies on their IR journey, as well as documentary evidence collected from 2011 to 2015.

Key Insights: The global tide is turning in favor of integrated reporting, and accountants have a fundamental role to play. They must equip themselves with new skills to help steer integrated reporting properly.

Ultimately, creating shared value acknowledges both the work that corporations need to do to reduce negative impacts on society as well as, and more fundamentally, how they can be part of progress on global challenges, such as climate change and the enforcement of human rights.

Central to IR is the value-creation process. The objective of an integrated report is to expose how an organization creates value over time, taking into consideration that this process is influenced by the company’s external environment, as well as its stakeholders, and relies on multiple resources.

Keywords: Integrated Reporting, Social and Environmental Accounting

JEL Classification: H83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gibassier, Delphine and Rodrigue, Michelle and Arjaliès, Diane-Laure, From Share Value to Shared Value: Exploring the Role of Accountants in Developing Integrated Reporting in Practice (January 1, 2016). IMA (Institute of Management Accountants) – ACCA (The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) Joint Research Report, January 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2836252
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
Robert Bruce
Going Mainstream
Accountancy Futures Posted: 2013
Paul Druckman
Perspective: The Entrepreneur
Accountancy Futures Posted: 2011
Robert Eccles
Perspective: The Academic
Accountancy Futures Posted: 2011
Robert K Elliott
The Third Wave Breaks on the Shores of Accounting Posted: 1992-06
Load more
1 Citations
Delphine Gibassier , Carol A Adams , Tiphaine Jerome
Integrated Reporting and the Capitals’ Diffusion
Report published by the French Accounting Standard Setter (Autorité des Normes Comptables), 2019, · 41 Pages · Posted: 5 Aug 2019 · Downloads: 691
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,012
RANK
263,504
1 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies