Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
General Theory of Social and Tax Expenditures and Proposals for Recasting the French System of Tax 'Loopholes'

La Revue de droit fiscal 8 September 2016 n°36,pp22-38

42 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2016

Eric Pichet

KEDGE Business School

Date Written: September 8, 2016

Abstract

The present study has two aims: to present our General Theory of Social and Tax Expenditures; and to apply this to the French tax system. After highlighting how the evaluation and management of tax loopholes has failed in France and the rest of the developed world, the first section discusses the theoretical principles underlying current tax regimes. The extremely heterogeneous nature of the standards they apply makes the construct of benchmark tax system patently impractical and justifies that these regimes be divided instead into six main categories called specific tax reference segments, with each representing a set of homogeneous fiscal standards. In turn, this allows for a methodical identification of social and tax expenditures based on a clear distinction between simple compulsory levy schemes, being the elements that underpin each of the social and tax systems in question. These conceptual foundations then enable a rigorous doctrine in which each exemption provision can be sorted using a succession of six filters that analyse its legitimacy, utility, relevance, efficiency, effectiveness and social acceptability. The prescriptive analysis is then supplemented by further doctrine enabling each specific reference segment’s overall monitoring. The second section applies the Theory to the French example. After inventorying the most costly French social and tax expenditures in 2016, the paper encourages lawmakers to maintain - and modify, if necessary - the most successful ones while getting rid of any that lack legitimacy or effectiveness. The article concludes with a methodology that should allow for a rational management in the future of all French social and tax expenditures.

Keywords: Tax expenditures, Theory of tax expenditures, tax policy, fair taxation, tax justice,benchmark tax system,social tax loopholes, social and tax expenditures, tax policy, tax reform, tax system

JEL Classification: E62, K34, H21

Suggested Citation:

Pichet, Eric, General Theory of Social and Tax Expenditures and Proposals for Recasting the French System of Tax 'Loopholes' (September 8, 2016). La Revue de droit fiscal 8 September 2016 n°36,pp22-38, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2841200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
The Finance Bill Planning Law runs for a period of at least three years, although lawmakers can extend this
Audit Committee" -chaired by J. Pisany-Ferry and with C. Bernard, A. Brun-Schamme and A. Naboulet as Reporters -publishes an annual audit. The most recent version came Posted: 2015-09
Being the threshold (in dollars) that triggers the interest of two leading American assessors
Comptes Cour Des
Tax expenditures, 2014 budget execution analysis note
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
118
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,237
RANK
545,548
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies