Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
NOCLAR or How Accountants Deal with Suspected or Occurred Breaches of the Law

Universiteit Gent, Working paper series, Working paper No. 2016-05

13 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2016 Last revised: 12 Mar 2017

Eddy Wymeersch

Ghent University - Financial Law Institute; ECGI

Date Written: March 11, 2017

Abstract

This paper gives an overview of the new international standard for accountants in case an accountant comes across or is informed that breaches of laws and regulations have been committed in the company he is auditing, or in which he is professionally involved. The standard mainly belongs to the International Code of Ethics, but is also dealt with in the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). It outlines the different steps the accountants should take, especially addressing the internal organisation of the company. If no result if obtained, he should determine whether, in the public interest, he should report to the authorities, taking into account a number of criteria. Documentation of these different steps is essential.

Keywords: ISA, noclar, accountant, ethics

JEL Classification: JEL Codes K22, K23, M42

Suggested Citation:

Wymeersch, Eddy O., NOCLAR or How Accountants Deal with Suspected or Occurred Breaches of the Law (March 11, 2017). Universiteit Gent, Working paper series, Working paper No. 2016-05, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2845282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2845282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Ethics Code 225-31, stating "The predecessor accountant shall do so despite paragraph 210.14 -on confidentiality between accountants -, unless prohibited by law or regulation
See the Standard on auditor reporting: Key audit matters 701 or Emphasis of Matter 706 , volume 40
See among others: Brooke Masters: Auditors need to face their failures and set up controls that work, FT Posted: 2016-09-04
Pcaob See
Inspection reports
International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators: Report on 2015 Survey of Inspection Findings March , volume 9 Posted: 2016
Load more
1 Citations
Mari Patterson , Lize-Marie Sahd
Evaluating the understanding and implementation of Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations
South African Journal of Business Management , volume 55 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
269
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,448
RANK
259,422
1 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies