Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Method Applied to Valuation: Too Many Uncomfortable Truths

8 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2016

Arturo Cifuentes

CLAPES--UC

Date Written: September 29, 2016

Abstract

The subprime crisis was an important wake up call for the financial discipline and the academic community. Several fundamental tenets of the field were called into question as the empirical evidence showed that they were less solid than previously believed. Currently, the list of issues under examination is long and challenging. It goes from basic ideas (are markets stable? are investors rational and homogeneous?) to more specialized topics (does the Value-at-Risk metric work? are credit ratings reliable?) The conventional Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method -- since it did not play any role in the crisis -- has gone so far unexamined. Yet, with or without subprime crisis, it remains one of the weakest and most difficult to defend elements of the financial canon.

Keywords: discounted cash flow method, valuation, DCF

JEL Classification: C0, G0

Suggested Citation:

Cifuentes, Arturo, The Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Method Applied to Valuation: Too Many Uncomfortable Truths (September 29, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2845341 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2845341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
J H Cochrane
Presidential Address: Discount Rates
Journal of Finance , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 4 , p. 1047 - 1108 Posted: 2011
Crossref
J Dean
Capital Budgeting Posted: 1951
E F Fama
Discounting Under Uncertainty
Journal of Business , volume 69 , issue 4 , p. 415 - 428 Posted: 1996
Crossref
H Markowitz
Portfolio Selection
Journal of Finance , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 91 Posted: 1952
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,708
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,834
RANK
23,805
2 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies