Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow: Measures and Analytical Tools

Advances in Financial Education, Volume 10, Issues 1&2, Fall, p. 11-39, 2012

36 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2016 Last revised: 21 Oct 2016

Prakash Deo

University of Houston - Downtown

Date Written: Janauary 30, 2011

Abstract

This study identifies and examines analytical tools that define and measure cash flow. Using the basic accounting equation, the paper derives and reconciles the free cash-flow identity and the accounting statement of cash flows and investigates their effects on valuation approaches. I also evaluate the two definitions of operating cash flow and validate their equivalence with an algebraic formulation. I develop the change in the internal cash measure and discuss its utility in financial planning. Then, I apply these tools to the valuations of two firms and their common equities. I advocate that educators and practitioners need to further advance the understanding of relations among the many measures of cash flow to strengthen financial analysis and improve decision making.

Keywords: Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow, Valuation, Operating Cash Flow, Change in Internal Cash

Suggested Citation:

Deo, Prakash, Cash Flow: Measures and Analytical Tools (Janauary 30, 2011). Advances in Financial Education, Volume 10, Issues 1&2, Fall, p. 11-39, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2847180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
G Baigent
Six Simple Proofs for Intro to Finance Classes
Advances in Financial Education , volume 3 , p. 35 - 47 Posted: 2005
R Brealey , S Myers , A Marcus
Fundamentals of Corporate Finance Posted: 2008
E Brigham , P Daves
Intermediate Financial Management Posted: 2009
Crossref
D G Carmichael , M C Balatbat
Probabilistic DCF Analysis and Capital Budgeting and Investment -A Survey
The Engineering Economist , volume 53 , p. 84 - 102 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,302
RANK
350,748
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies