Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bancorp: A Test for Post-Enron GAAP

16 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2016 Last revised: 16 Feb 2017

Lawrence Abrams

Independent

Date Written: September 12, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to review a late 2014 non-consolidation decision of The Bancorp (NASDAQ:TBBK), a Philadelphia area bank with a diversified loan portfolio, but also known for being one of largest issuers of reloadable prepaid debit and gift cards in the country.

Based on detail presented below, we conclude that either that The Bancorp is not in compliance with Post-Enron GAAP and or that it has been so watered down as to weaken the effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act in ensuring that banks are well capitalized.

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) relating to consolidation of subsidiaries have changed dramatically in response to the Enron scandal of the late 90s. Pre-Enron, GAAP for consolidation was specified in ARB No. 51.

Post-Enron in 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FIN 46 - an interpretation ARB No. 51. The simple majority interest rule was complete scraped. Instead, FASB said that an enterprise must consolidate a variable interest entity (VIE) ― variable shares of equity and debt ― when it had a controlling financial interest as defined quantitatively​ by the obligation to absorb the major share of losses or the right to receive the major share of benefits.

In 2009, FASB amended FIN 46(R) to take into account the valid criticism from lenders to VIEs who had to consolidate because they had a majority financial interest but absolute no power to direct the activities that affected the financials.

This amendment ― FASB 46(R) - Statement 167 ― added a qualitative​ stipulation that a corporation must consolidate a VIE if it had most of the power to direct the activities as well as a majority interest in the resulting financial gains and losses.

Majority financial interest can be determined quantitatively and has been relatively easy to evaluate for compliance. But, as PwC lamented in a bulletin, the qualitative question of who has the most decision-making power “will require considerable judgment.”

Keywords: GAAP, Enron Scandal, GAAP for Consolidation of VIE, the Bancorp, Dodd-Frank, Well-Capitalized Bank, FASB Fin 46, FASB 46(R), Statement 167

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G28, G21

Suggested Citation:

Abrams, Lawrence, The Bancorp: A Test for Post-Enron GAAP (September 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2850729 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2850729
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies