Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation's Impact on SMES' Financial Performance through Voluntary Disclosed Information

25 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2016 Last revised: 22 Jun 2017

Francisco M. Somohano

University of Cantabria - Faculty of Business & Economics

José López-Fernández

University of Cantabria

Francisco J. Martinez Garcia

University of Cantabria - Department of Economics

Date Written: April 5, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to study the effect of innovation on Small and Middle-sized Enterprises’ performance in comparison with the effect of the industrial activity of the company. The economical measuring of performance was made by Cash Flow over Total Asset. As independent variables we used two indicators based on the information voluntarily disclosed by the companies, one to measure innovation and the other to catalogue the activity differently than the industrial classifications. The sample included a total of 920 companies from the Spanish automobile components industry (81% SMEs and 19% large companies). The results show that 2008 crisis is the factor with the greatest impact on the results; the companies that innovate the least experience a lower cash flow on assets, companies with a medium level of innovation, mainly Middle-Sized firms, have best results; moreover, the efficiency of innovation is reduced beyond a threshold that marks the boundary between the Structure–Conduct–Performance paradigm and the Resource–Based Approach.

Keywords: Innovation, Industry, Cash Flow, Automobile, Disclosure

JEL Classification: L25, O31, O32

Suggested Citation:

Somohano, Francisco M. and López-Fernández, José and Martinez Garcia, Francisco J., Innovation's Impact on SMES' Financial Performance through Voluntary Disclosed Information (April 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2851076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
P Adler
Technology Strategy: A Guide to Literature
Research on Technological Innovation, Management and Policy , p. 25 - 151 Posted: 1989
R J Arend
Industry effects and firm effects: No effect is an island
Journal of Business Research , volume 62 , issue 6 , p. 651 - 659 Posted: 2009
Crossref
V Bamiatzi , K Bozos , S T Cavusgil , G T M Hult
Revisiting the firm, industry, and country effects on profitability under recessionary and expansion periods: A multilevel analysis
Strategic Management Journal Posted: 2015
Crossref
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of Management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,403
RANK
663,174
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies