Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balanced Scorecard and beyond – Applying Theories of Performance Measurement, Employment and Rewards in Management Accounting Education

International Research Journal of Management Sciences, Vol. 4(7), pp. 483-491, 2016

10 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2016

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: June 17, 2016

Abstract

This study applies the prevailing scholarly theories of strategic management, employment decisions, cost accounting and share reward schemes to a panel of questions raised by Colin Drury (2012) in the case study of the fictitious company Integrated Technology Services (UK) Ltd., ITS (UK). The paper provides model answers which can be used when working with the case study at institutions of higher education. The merit of the work lies in three areas. First, it provides an overview of theories accepted by the academia that can be utilized for further research. Second, it contrasts pro and contra arguments. Thus it shows the limitations of the very theories when applied to scenarios inspired by practical problems. Third, it develops an innovative Balanced Scorecard for ITS (UK). The scorecard can be used as an example when working with Drury’s case study. But it is also suitable for real life situations of business entities faced with oppressive overheads and deteriorating net margins, building on highly skilled workforce and trying to preserve its differentiated profile

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Recruiting and Outsourcing, Target Costing, Hierarchy of Needs, Hygiene Factors and Motivators, Building Block Model

JEL Classification: L21, L86, M10, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, The Balanced Scorecard and beyond – Applying Theories of Performance Measurement, Employment and Rewards in Management Accounting Education (June 17, 2016). International Research Journal of Management Sciences, Vol. 4(7), pp. 483-491, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851023
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Prof. Dr. Ahmed Al-Baidhani أ. د. احمد البيضاني
The Use of Balanced Scorecard as a Tool for Performance Management and Planning
Pages: 19 Posted: 26 Aug 2013 Last revised: 24 Oct 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E W Anderson , C Fornell , S Mazvancheryl
Customer satisfaction and shareholder value
Journal of Marketing , volume 68 , issue 4 , p. 172 - 185 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Performance management (5 th ed.). London
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants ACCA Posted: 2011
P Atrill , E Mclaney
Management Accounting for Decision Makers Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
443
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,838
RANK
149,881
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies