Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Professional Judgement in Romania. The Case of Factoring Contracts

Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., Olimid, Lavinia, Guse, Raluca and Viorel, Avram, The Use of Professional Judgement in Romania. The Case of Factoring Contracts, Amis 2010 - Proceedings of the 5th International Conference, Accounting and Management Information Systems Pages: 441-454 Published: 2010

15 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2016

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Lavinia Olimid

Academia de Studii Economice Bucuresti

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Avram Viorel

Independent

Date Written: October 13, 2016

Abstract

Switching from an accounting system based on compliance and enforcement of strict rules, to a system where the professional judgement plays a key role in the accounting valuation and recognition of assets and liabilities can be a difficult exercise. After 1989, an accounting reform began in Romania in order to adapt the accounting system at the new economic environment. At that time, the accounting system was characterised by a legal approach for the recognition of assets and liabilities. The nature and extent of disclosures were imposed by the regulator, leaving little freedom for accounting professionals to choose specific forms of presentation.

A few years later (1999), the regulators expanded the field of professional judgement by introducing IASC’s conceptual framework and elements of International Accounting Standards. The aim of this paper is to show that the conceptual elements of IAS/IFRS have influenced only to a small extent the professional judgement of accountants. For this we chose to analyse questions and answers posted on accounting forums regarding the accounting treatment of factoring agreements for which the accounting regulator has not yet issued specific regulations.

Keywords: Professional judgement, accounting regulation, accounting for factoring agreements, recognition of assets, recognition of liabilities

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Olimid, Lavinia and Guse, Raluca and Viorel, Avram, The Use of Professional Judgement in Romania. The Case of Factoring Contracts (October 13, 2016). Calu, Daniela Artemisa St., Olimid, Lavinia, Guse, Raluca and Viorel, Avram, The Use of Professional Judgement in Romania. The Case of Factoring Contracts, Amis 2010 - Proceedings of the 5th International Conference, Accounting and Management Information Systems Pages: 441-454 Published: 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Accounting Standards Board
Factoring, o alternativă de finanţare pe perioada crizei
Financial Reporting Standard 5: Reporting the Substance of Transactions Burghelea , volume 29 Posted: 1994
L Olimid , D A Calu
Patrimoniul ca obiect al contabilităţii -un concept desuet?
Contabilitate şi expertiză , issue 4 , p. 10 - 14 Posted: 1999
J Schmutte
Professional Judgment: A Model for Accounting and Auditing Decisions
The CPA Journal Posted: 2009-01
*** Revista Generală De Comerţ Şi Contabilitate
Posted: 1908-08
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,250
RANK
834,175
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies