Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assets Restatement Model from the Natural Capital Maintenance Perspective

Internal Auditing & Risk Management , Vol. 4, Issue 20, pg. 71-80, ISSN 2065 – 8168, 2010

11 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2016

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Adriana Calu

University of Bucharest

Avram Viorel

Independent

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The present research aims to propose a new approach to defining and measuring assets in terms of the negative effects and net benefits arising from their use and affecting the natural capital. In this regard, we provide a new definition and a reclassification of assets in three categories, depending on the nature of their environmental impact. The proposed categories are: natural assets, neutral assets and polluting assets. Given that natural assets can not be object to reliable measurements, we find as appropriate the current qualitative reporting techniques (Corporate Social Responsibility Reports – CSR). Balance sheet assets, reclassified as neutral assets and polluting assets will be restated based on an environmental factor. The proposed model may be used for financial and non-financial reporting of environmental issues, as well as an instrument for environmental audits and for the assessment of environmental risks.

Keywords: Neutral Assets, Polluting Assets, Environmental Factor, Environmental Audit and Risk, Positive and Negative Externalities

JEL Classification: Q56, M40, M41, M42, O13

Suggested Citation:

Guse, Raluca and Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Calu, Adriana and Viorel, Avram, Assets Restatement Model from the Natural Capital Maintenance Perspective (2010). Internal Auditing & Risk Management , Vol. 4, Issue 20, pg. 71-80, ISSN 2065 – 8168, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J Bebbington , R Gray , C Hibbitt , E Kirk
Full Cost Accounting -An Agenda for Action Posted: 2001
Crossref
D A Calu , L Olimid , M Dumitru , R Guşe , M D Mangiuc
contract CNCSIS PN II IDEI , volume 797 Posted: 2007
Crossref
D A Calu , L Olimid , M Dumitru , R Guşe , M D Mangiuc
Posted: 2009
R H Coase
The problem of social cost
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 3 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 1960
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,068
RANK
819,727
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies