Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
In a Tax Practice, Everything Is Fine, until It's Not!

Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, July 2016

5 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2016

Charles P. Rettig

Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C.

Date Written: July 2016

Abstract

Although often struggling with deadlines and sometimes recalcitrant clients, your tax practice can be an enjoyable, rewarding experience. Tax practitioners provide their clients with an objective, knowledgeable review of financial information that is ultimately presented to the government in the form of a tax or information return. If the client has provided timely, complete responses requests for information, the process should be fairly smooth and straightforward. Unfortunately, there is a reason many people become clients, and it is not because they routinely coordinate all relevant information necessary to the preparation of a return nor do they routinely provide such information in a timely manner.

Possibly more than in any other profession, tax practitioners are required to participate in extensive, ongoing training and education to keep pace with highly complex, ever-changing statutory and case authorities. Tax practitioners often devote untold personal hours being educated on new tax provisions, software updates, policies and procedures. Cases issued in the morning might impact positions in returns filed later that afternoon. Since a purpose in proposing and assessing penalties is to encourage accountability, affect behavior and increase voluntary compliance, examiners are now generally required to comment on preparer penalties as a material part of the examination process.

Preparer penalty issues will most often arise during or at the conclusion of an examination of the taxpayers return when some or all of an undisclosed or improperly disclosed position has been disallowed. Is it reasonable to believe that an examining agent, having disallowed a questionable position, will be convinced there was the requisite “substantial authority” for the undisclosed position? Is it reasonable to believe that an examining agent, having disallowed a questionable position, will be convinced there was a “reasonable basis” for the disclosed position? Also, most return positions are comprised of several sub-positions. If each sub-position has a 40-percent chance of success on the merits, the primary position might not have a similar overall 40-percent chance of success on the merits (40 percent of 40 percent of 40 percent is not 40 percent overall).

The practitioner’s duty of representation to the client must be balanced with the effort to reasonably cooperate with the return filing and examination process. You cannot be all things to all people, regardless of the effort and personal sacrifice. Be prepared, exercise your best judgment and document your recommendations. Clients who refuse to comply with your valued recommendations should be encouraged to seek other representation. In a tax practice, everything is fine, until it’s not!

Suggested Citation:

Rettig, Charles P., In a Tax Practice, Everything Is Fine, until It's Not! (July 2016). Journal of Tax Practice & Procedure, July 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2856792
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
830
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies