Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PCAOB Monitoring and the Information Uncertainty Associated with Fair Value Estimates

44 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2016 Last revised: 24 Mar 2019

Carol Callaway Dee

University of Colorado Denver

Katherine Gunny

University of Colorado at Denver

William Strawser

University of Colorado Denver

Date Written: March 2019

Abstract

We study the role of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) as a monitor in mitigating uncertainty surrounding fair value (FV) estimates in issuer financial statements. Specifically, we examine whether the FV deficiencies highlighted in PCAOB inspection reports are associated with information uncertainty exhibited by fair value estimates in financial statements. We find a negative relation between information uncertainty (i.e., implied asset-specific betas related to FV disclosures) and the intensity of FV deficiencies in the inspection report and that this result is driven by issuer clients that face the greatest exposure to complex FV assets. To the extent FV deficient reports lead auditors to conduct higher quality audits regarding FV, we expect auditor behavior related to client FV assets to change in response. Consistent with our expectation, we find evidence of decreased transfers into level three FV assets and increased disclosure in the FV footnote (increased number of words and number of asset/liability categories) in response to FV deficient reports. Overall, our evidence suggests that the PCAOB inspection process plays a role in mitigating opacity issues related to fair value.

Keywords: PCAOB Inspection Reports, Fair Value Deficiencies, Fair Value Estimates

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dee, Carol Callaway and Gunny, Katherine and Strawser, William, PCAOB Monitoring and the Information Uncertainty Associated with Fair Value Estimates (March 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2858966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2858966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,877
RANK
355,843
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies