Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Apple State Aid Ruling: A Wrong Way to Enforce the Benefits Principle?

U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 16-024

9 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2016 Last revised: 12 Jan 2021

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Gianluca Mazzoni

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School

Date Written: October 27, 2016

Abstract

Following an in-depth investigation formally launched in June 2014, the European Commission has recently concluded that Ireland granted tax benefits of up to €13 billion to Apple in violation of the State aid rules. As a result, Ireland must now recover the illegal aid. That decision has been sharply criticized by Jack Lew, the U.S. Treasury Secretary, who believes only the Internal Revenue Service has the right to tax Apple’s foreign income, since most of the company’s research and development took place in the US. However, that is not the way the big EU countries, where sales are made, see things. Who is right? To whom does the income belong? This paper seeks to answer those questions by analyzing the impact of “Check-the-Box” regulations and EU Directives on profit shifting from high-tax countries like the U.K. and Germany to Luxembourg, the Caymans or other jurisdictions with lower or no taxes on certain items of income. Thus, the Apple case might be seen as an attempt to improve source-based taxation of active income, in response to the void that Treasury Department inadvertently or deliberately created in 1996 by weakening subpart F rules at the expense of EU trading partners.

Keywords: State Aid, Apple

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Mazzoni, Gianluca, Apple State Aid Ruling: A Wrong Way to Enforce the Benefits Principle? (October 27, 2016). U of Michigan Law & Econ Research Paper No. 16-024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2859996 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2859996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
892
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,791
RANK
61,318
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies