Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Encore 'Performance' from the IRS - Severing Deductions Under Section 162(m)

36 Tax Management Comp. Pl. J. 52 (3/7/08), reprinted in BNA Tax Management Memorandum (9/28/08)

7 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2016 Last revised: 3 Nov 2016

Andrew L. Oringer

The Wagner Law Group; Fordham University School of Law; Hofstra University - Maurice A. Deane School of Law

Stacy DeWalt

White and Case

Date Written: March 7, 2008

Abstract

The question of whether under Section 162 (m) of the Internal Revenue Code a compensation plan can pay out performance-based compensation in the event of a termination without cause, and still be a valid performance-based plan under Section 162 (m), can be a difficult and nuanced question. Early IRS private rulings indicated "yes" and a later IRS Revenue Ruling says "no". This article explores the evolution of the authority, and sets forth proposed approaches for designing arrangements in light of this issue.

Suggested Citation:

Oringer, Andrew L. and DeWalt, Stacy, An Encore 'Performance' from the IRS - Severing Deductions Under Section 162(m) (March 7, 2008). 36 Tax Management Comp. Pl. J. 52 (3/7/08), reprinted in BNA Tax Management Memorandum (9/28/08), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2860746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
573
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies