Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Possible Amendment to IFRS for SMEs Due to New Approach to Operating Lease Reporting in Full IFRS: Effect on Financial Analysis Ratios in Air Cargo Transportation in the Czech Republic

Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, 5(1), 139-151

13 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2016

Hana Bohusova

Mendel University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Patrik Svoboda

Mendel University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: July 15, 2015

Abstract

The paper focuses on the desirability and possibility of amendment to the IFRS for SMEs as a consequence of drafted changes in the full IFRS lease reporting in the regular three years amendments. The main objective of the research is the evaluation of the lease treatments developed for listed companies primarily from the perspective of the SME lessees. The air cargo transportation in the Czech Republic was chosen for the study, due to the fact, that this sector was identified as operating lease intensive. The modified method of constructive capitalization was utilized for capitalization of operating lease. The conclusions of the study show a relation between capitalized future minimum lease obligations as an item of fixed assets and return on assets, relation between capitalized future minimum lease obligations and Indebtedness and relation between capitalized future minimum lease obligations and D/E ratio. Firms use operating leases to acquire the use of assets while not acquiring legal ownership. The results of the study confirmed that firms use the operating lease to improve their financial analysis ratios in comparison to acquisition of assets.

Keywords: SMEs, IFRS for SMEs, operating lease, capitalization

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bohusova, Hana and Svoboda, Patrik, Possible Amendment to IFRS for SMEs Due to New Approach to Operating Lease Reporting in Full IFRS: Effect on Financial Analysis Ratios in Air Cargo Transportation in the Czech Republic (July 15, 2015). Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, 5(1), 139-151, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2861787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
 Copyright
Online , p. 2304 - 1269 Posted: 2016
Crossref
B Bennett , M Bradbury , E
Capitalizing Non-cancelable Operating Leases
Journal of International Financial Management & Accounting , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M Berman
Capitalization of Operating Leases by Credit Rating Agencies Posted: 2007
H Bohušová
Is capitalization of operating lease way to increase of comparability of financial statements prepared under IFRS and US GAAP?
Acta Universitatis Agriculturae et Silviculturae Mendelianae Brunensis , volume 63 , p. 507 - 514 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,334
RANK
467,335
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies