Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substance and Form in Romanian Accounting Regulation

FSE Tibiscus Annals, pp.564–571, 2004

8 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2016

Daniela Artemisa St. Calu

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Raluca Guse

Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies

Lavinia Olimid

Academia de Studii Economice Bucuresti

Avram Viorel

Independent

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

Switching from an accounting system based on compliance and enforcement of strict rules, to a system where the professional judgement plays a key role in the accounting recognition of assets and their disclosure can be a difficult exercise. Throughout history, Romania has moved through a winding path, from the standpoint of accounting judgement. Although there have been attempts of early normalization at the beginning of the twentieth century, that led to the literature addressing some aspects of assets recognition and classification, both form a legal and economic perspective, they have never been implemented (Calu, 2005). By the middle of the twentieth century, the accounting system was a Soviet-inspired one, where practitioners were required to apply “recipes” for asset recognition and disclosure, enforced on a national scale, thus rendering the professional judgement useless. Beginning with 1989, most accounting treatments were still predefined, but certain transactions and events required professional judgement. The regulators have expanded the field of professional judgement through the Romanian Accounting Development Programme, by adopting an economic view for assets recognition and disclosure. The objective of this paper is to show that conceptual contradictions or alternative classification criteria, can preclude the exercise of professional judgement regarding the recognition and disclosure of assets.

Keywords: Accounting Normalization, Recognition of Assets, Classification of Assets, Economic Approach, Legal Approach

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Calu, Daniela Artemisa St. and Guse, Raluca and Olimid, Lavinia and Viorel, Avram, Substance and Form in Romanian Accounting Regulation (2004). FSE Tibiscus Annals, pp.564–571, 2004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862088
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
of: (i) the accounting framework, (ii) the definition of assets, (iii) the presence and meaning REFERENCES
D A Calu
Istorie şi dezvoltare privind contabilitatea din România Posted: 2005
I N Evian
Teoriile conturilor. Studiu economic şi privat de istorie critică a teoriei conturilor în contabilitate, Imprimeria Fondului Cărţilor Funduare Posted: 1940
I N Evian
Contabilitatea dublă Posted: 1928
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
RANK
849,077
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies