Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cross Check of the Tax Base in Serbia – Informative Tax Return Sample

9 Pages Posted: 5 Nov 2016

Ivan Raonic

College of Economics and Administration, Belgrade

Zoran Vasic

Independent

Igor Pejovic

Higher School of Economic, Belgrade

Date Written: November 3, 2016

Abstract

Abstract: The tax system of the Republic of Serbia is characterized by a very low level of income taxation. It is a particularly acute problem in cross-checking the tax base. The legislature tried to solve this problem by the introduction of an informative tax return (IPP). This paper describes the basic forms of tax offenses characteristic of tax evasion on income and discusses how to solve them, with a particular focus on the implementation of cross-checking the tax base.

Keywords: income tax, tax evasion, enforcement, tax authorities, informative tax return

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Raonic, Ivan and Vasic, Zoran and Pejovic, Igor Milan, Cross Check of the Tax Base in Serbia – Informative Tax Return Sample (November 3, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2864103 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2864103
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
RANK
841,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies