Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Judicial Review of the Accountants' Concession: A Case for Improving Tax Administration and Accountability

Revenue Law Journal, Vol. 21 [2011], Iss.1, Art. 8

41 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2016

John Azzi

Western Sydney University, School of Law

Date Written: June 8, 2012

Abstract

This paper reviews the Discussion Paper released in April 2011 by the Australian Government setting out proposals for shielding tax advice of accountants from the Tax Commissioner's coercive access powers. The paper argues that statutory entrenchment of the existing administrative arrangement, known as the accountants' concession, would best achieve the desired outcome of ensuring competitive neutrality between lawyers and accountants giving tax advice.

Keywords: Accountants' concession, legal professional privilege, judicial review, jurisdictional error, legitimate expectations, voluntary compliance

JEL Classification: K00, K23, K34

Suggested Citation:

Azzi, John, Judicial Review of the Accountants' Concession: A Case for Improving Tax Administration and Accountability (June 8, 2012). Revenue Law Journal, Vol. 21 [2011], Iss.1, Art. 8, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2866756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
Analysis of this approach is beyond the scope of this article
26] where Perram J relies inter alia on the principle of legality espoused in Electrolux Home Products Pty Ltd v The Australian Workers' Union (2004) 221 CLR 309, 329 (Gleeson CJ) to suggest that procedural fairness applies to regulate the conduct of the approving senior ATO
225 CLR 88, 99; Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs
Applicant VEAL of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs , volume 72 , p. 624 - 625 Posted: 2003
SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,099
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies