Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation Agents

Washington and Lee Law Review, Vol. 76, No. 1, 2018

U of Alabama Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2867611

53 Pages Posted: 11 Nov 2016 Last revised: 17 Jun 2018

Mirit Eyal

University of Alabama - School of Law

Date Written: November 10, 2016

Abstract

The standard narrative of entrepreneurship is of self-employed creative individuals working out of their garage or independently owned start-up companies. Intrapreneurship — where employees are responsible for being alert to new opportunities inside firms — is another model for developing innovations. Relatively little is known, however, about the latter process through which large, complex firms engage in groundbreaking corporate entrepreneurship.

This Article’s focus is on this type of innovation agents. It provides a thorough account of the positive and negative spillovers of intrapreneurial firms while making the following key points: First, intrapreneurial companies utilize their economies of scale, scope, and age to deliver innovations to the masses. They transform ideas, labor, and raw materials into tangible assets that can be traded in the market. Second, in doing so they offer individual entrepreneurs opportunities to capitalize their knowledge. Sustaining entrepreneurs’ prospects for supra-competitive profits is the main engine that motivates the latter to invest in discoveries in the first place. Lastly, intrapreneurial firms also serve as greenhouse for entrepreneurship through the migration of their own talented labor in the market.

While these spillovers have tremendous societal benefits, they can also introduce harms. First, the race for the next breakthrough might result in anticompetitive behavior by rivals who conspire with employees-intrapreneurs to leave their firms and take with them confidential information. Second, intrapreneurs often aspire to undertake their own independent journey. In so doing, they leave secure positions and high salaries while carrying valuable knowledge and expertise. This, in return, often prompts intrapreneurial firms to act opportunistically and lock-in or lock-out intrapreneurs in restrictive and wasteful arrangements. As a solution, this Article proposes ways law can balance the positive and negative spillovers of intrapreneurship and ways the tax system can help achieve such result.

Keywords: Entrepreneurs, Intrapreneurship, Tax, Tax Incentives Internal Corporate Venturing, Innovation, Agents, Spillovers, Externalities, Experience, Age, Scope, Economic Growth, Competition, Non-Competes, Non-Disclosure, Anti-Poaching

Suggested Citation:

Eyal, Mirit, Innovation Agents (November 10, 2016). Washington and Lee Law Review, Vol. 76, No. 1, 2018, U of Alabama Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2867611, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2867611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
ÁCS, supra note 55, at 8. See also CHRISTENSEN, supra note 57
Christensen See
See Michael , D Lord &amp; Annette , L Ranft
Acquiring New Knowledge: The Role of Retaining Human Capital in Acquisitions of High-Tech Firms
11 J. OF HIGH TECH. MANAG. RES , volume 295 Posted: 2000
C Thomas , Haynes
Sam Walton is Dead at 74; the Founder of Wal-Mart Stores
NY TIMES Posted: 1992-04-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
336
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,209
RANK
204,845
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Alabama School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies