Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Derivatives with Initial Margin Under IFRS 13

13 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2016

Richard Kenyon

Aston University

Chris Kenyon

MUFG Securities EMEA plc; University College London

Date Written: November 23, 2016

Abstract

Initial margin is required by central counterparties (CCPs) and under regulatory Bilateral Initial Margin (BCBS-317). This initial margin is contractually defined in Clearing Arrangements (CA) or Collateral Support Deeds (CSD) respectively. We investigate whether the cost of this initial margin over the life of the affected trades (known as Margin Valuation Adjustment, MVA) should be accounted for in Accounting Fair Value under IFRS 13. We find strong indications that MVA should be reflected in Fair Value given that to exit the affected trades any financial institution taking them over would face the same costs from the trades and additional required contracts (CA or CSD) that the first financial institution already faced. In addition the CA/CSD that give rise to MVA are contractually connected to the related trades and contribute to the overall project costs of the trades. These CA/CSD project costs are analogous to costs from cashflows due to Collateral Support Agreements (CSAs) which have a similar contractual relation to trades and CSAs are routinely included in trade pricing. Whether MVA is reported separately or as part of desk activity depends on the applicable unit of account given the internal setup of the financial institution and specific trading patterns following IFRS 9 and IFRS 13.

Keywords: MVA, Bilateral Initial Margin, BCBS-317, IFRS, Fair Value, Accounting, Non-Centrally Cleared Derivatives

JEL Classification: G12, G18, G21, G28, K23, L51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kenyon, Richard and Kenyon, Chris, Accounting for Derivatives with Initial Margin Under IFRS 13 (November 23, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2874703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2874703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Caenazzo Albanese , Crépey
Capital and Funding
Risk , volume 29 , issue 4 Posted: 2016
Rama Cont
Margin Requirements for Non-Cleared Derivatives
Pages: 19 Posted: 11 May 2018 Last revised: 20 May 2018
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Financial Reporting , Council
The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
MVA by Replication and Regression , volume 27 , p. 82 - 87 Posted: 2010
A Green
XVA: Credit, Funding and Capital Valuation Adjustments Posted: 2015
Load more
1 Citations
Matthias Vierkoetter
The Impact of Initial Margin on Derivatives Pricing with an Application of Machine Learning
22 Pages · Posted: 30 Jul 2019 · Downloads: 494
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
866
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,853
RANK
63,925
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies