Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding Bank Valuation: An Application of the Equity Cash Flow and the Residual Income Approach in Bank Financial Accounting Statements

Open Journal of Accounting, Vol. 6, p. 1-10, DOI/10.4236/ojacct.2017.61001, Forthcoming

10 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2016

Eleftherios Aggelopoulos

University of Patras, Department of Business Administration

Date Written: December 5, 2016

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to present a framework to bank valuation based on two generally acceptable valuation models that are not specific to banks: the model of discounted Equity Cash Flow to Equity (ECF) and the model of discounted Residual Income (RI). As emphasized by Koller, Goedhart and Wessels (pp. 663, 2005) in a bestselling book on the valuation of firms, the valuation process of a financial institution is characterized by fundamental difficulties because of the peculiarities that characterize the function of banking business and also the lack of information on critical bank financial data, such as the quality of the loan portfolio. This means that estimates based on assumptions must be created for these data and in this direction this paper provides an analytical guideline. For carrying out the valuation of a financial institution, specific templates of banking accounting statements (i.e. a Balance Sheet and a Profit and Loss statement) proposed by Dermine (2009) are used. The paper shows that both ECF and RI produce equivalent equity bank values. Given the recent financial crisis that has elevated the concern of banking institutions’ soundness, it is important to illustrate in practice the existing bank accepted valuation methodologies in order to form a clear framework for measuring the value of a bank and assess bank performance. The proposed framework can be applied by bank practitioners.

Keywords: Banks, Valuation, Accounting Statements, Cash Flow to Equity, Residual Income

JEL Classification: G21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Aggelopoulos, Eleftherios, Understanding Bank Valuation: An Application of the Equity Cash Flow and the Residual Income Approach in Bank Financial Accounting Statements (December 5, 2016). Open Journal of Accounting, Vol. 6, p. 1-10, DOI/10.4236/ojacct.2017.61001, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880766
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
T Koller , M Goedhart , D Wessels
Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies Posted: 2005
J Dermine
Bank Valuation and Value-Based Management Posted: 2009
S Gross
Banks and Shareholder Value. An Overview of Bank Valuation and Empirical Evidence on Shareholder Value for Banks. DUV Gabler Edition Wissenschaft Posted: 2006
R Brealey , S Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
755
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,098
RANK
76,773
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies