Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ariadne in the South: New Zealand International Taxation of Passive Trust Income

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 2017, Forthcoming

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/101

38 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2016

Mark Brabazon

The University of Sydney Law School; University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: December 5, 2016

Abstract

This article examines the international taxation of dividend, interest and royalty income derived through a trust. It concludes that New Zealand’s general principles of international trust taxation and its international withholding rules can be reconciled by applying and re-applying the trust attribution rules at each relevant withholding or taxing point. Applying purposive statutory interpretation, non-resident beneficiaries and non-resident trustees can benefit from the foreign investor tax credit or zero-rated interest withholding under the approved issuer levy regime. There is one significant inconsistency: if the income is attributed to the trustees on behalf of the trust, the nature of the claim to tax does not depend on the settlor’s residence (as the trust rules usually require) but the trustees’ own residence.

Keywords: International trust taxation, dividend interest and royalty withholding, trust residence, attribution of income, DIR / passive income, approved issuer levy (AIL), foreign investor tax credit, New Zealand

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brabazon, Mark, Ariadne in the South: New Zealand International Taxation of Passive Trust Income (December 5, 2016). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 2017, Forthcoming, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 16/101, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
ITA NZ ss RF 7, RF 8, RF 11B
See ITA NZ Subpart LP
Crossref
Foreign withholding tax is unlikely to apply to interest income that has a source in New Zealand unless there is a conflict of source between the tax laws of the countries involved. Cf s YA 1 (definition of 'foreign withholding tax'), which requires the other country's tax to have
ITA NZ ss RF 7, RF 12; heading 3.2 above. Different rules and rates apply in the joint resident and non
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
RANK
692,613
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies