Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
U.S. Tax Policy on Taxing Citizens and Residents Abroad: A Closer Look

Tax Notes International, Vol. 42, No. 12, 2006

9 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2016

Paula N. Singer

None

Date Written: June 19, 2006

Abstract

There is much confusion about how the United States taxes individuals as compared to other countries. The United States is frequently described as “the only country which taxes its citizens on their worldwide income.” Although this statement is true, it implies that no other countries tax their citizens on their worldwide income which is not true.

This article describes how countries tax the income of individuals: citizenship-based taxation on worldwide income imposed based on citizenship or permanent resident status, residence-based taxation on worldwide income imposed based on residence or domicile within the country, or territorial-based taxation on income earned within the country of residence. The article lists 48 countries that tax the worldwide income of their residents as that term is defined by the country’s internal law.

The article points out that U.S. citizens and residents (“green card holders”) residing abroad in a country with residence-based taxation are subject to double taxation on their worldwide income, once by their country of residence and once by the United States. The article then describes the mechanisms these taxpayers may use to reduce this double taxation – section 911 foreign earned income exclusions and foreign tax credits. Section 911 exclusions, introduced as a form of tax simplification, allow qualified individuals to exclude their earned income up to specified maximum amounts. Earned income is defined as income from the performance of services. Unearned income – dividends, interest, gains, and certain pension distributions – is not excludable. Alternatively, these taxpayers may use foreign taxes as a deduction or as a credit, under the much more complicated foreign tax credit regime, to offset their U.S. taxes attributable to foreign income.

The article also discusses how social security agreements eliminate double social security taxes, but how income tax treaties do not eliminate or reduce double income taxation for these U.S. taxpayers.

Lastly, the article discusses proposals put forth by tax reformers to remove double worldwide taxation: 1) uncapping the section 911 exclusions, 2) replacing citizenship-based taxation with residence-based taxation, or 3) both uncapping and expanding section 911 exclusions to include unearned income as well, in effect providing territorial taxation and, in the case of U.S. citizens and green card holders living in tax have countries, no taxation.

Suggested Citation:

Singer, Paula N., U.S. Tax Policy on Taxing Citizens and Residents Abroad: A Closer Look (June 19, 2006). Tax Notes International, Vol. 42, No. 12, 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2881346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,273
RANK
521,427
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies