Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Culture Matter? – A Systematic Literature Review on How Culture Interacts with Management Control Systems

54 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2016

Christian Andersen

Aarhus University - Department of Organization and Management

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: November 1, 2016

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to synthesize evidence about how culture affects management control systems (MCS).

To accomplish this, a systematic literature review is conducted based on 57 journals in the accounting field ranked 4 – 2 in the Chartered Association of Business Schools’ Academic Journal Guide 2015. 98 articles were initially chosen and the most significant of these articles are used for a discussion. The paper takes a wide approach to culture, combining national culture with upper echelon theory and organisational culture. The framework, by Malmi and Brown (2008), on management control systems structures the paper, as it focuses on five groups of control systems, and the effect of culture is considered in relation to these groups.

It is found that the literature on the effects of culture on MCS is fragmented, as a variety of definitions of culture is in use, resulting in a lack of coherence of the cultural influence. Several examples of how culture influences management accounting practices are identified for each of the five groups, but several papers are also found to report no effect of culture. This relates to the Malmi and Brown framework, and a discussion of why the results differ is undertaken, where it is argued that it is mainly due to a negligence of considering internal and external aspects of culture in cohesion.

The main contribution of this paper is that it shows that culture does matter for MCS, but that culture needs to be seen from a perspective combining internal aspects of culture such as cultural controls, sometimes driven by upper echelon theory, with external aspects of culture such as national culture. The discussion of whether national culture matters for MCS, as such, is slightly misguided, as focus should rather be on which of the two aspects of culture dominates. In addition, a model is developed for practitioners showing where different elements of culture are found to have an influence on selected MCS based on the literature reviewed.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Management Control Systems, culture, upper echelon theory, Budgeting, Activity-based Costing, Balanced Scorecard

JEL Classification: M10, M41

Suggested Citation:

Andersen, Christian and Lueg, Rainer, Does Culture Matter? – A Systematic Literature Review on How Culture Interacts with Management Control Systems (November 1, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2890880 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2890880
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
** = ; *al Chen , Y S Romocki , T Zuckerman , G J
Examination of US-based Japanese subsidiaries: Evidence of the transfer of the Japanese strategic cost management
Article identified through initial review Academic Journal Guide , volume 32 , p. 417 - 440 Posted: 1997
O A Albertsen , R Lueg
The Balanced Scorecard's missing link to compensation: a literature review and an agenda for future research
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 2006
P **auyeung , J Sands
A cross cultural study of the learning style of accounting students
Accounting & Finance , volume 36 , issue 2 , p. 261 - 274 Posted: 1996
Crossref
V N **awasthi , C W Chow , A Wu
Performance measure and resource expenditure choices in a teamwork environment: the effects of national culture
Management Accounting Research , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 119 - 138 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,915
RANK
115,944
2 Citations
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies