Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Method to Estimate NPV and IRR from the Capital Amortization Schedule and an Insight into Why NPV Is Not the Appropriate Criterion for Capital Investment Decision

17 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2017 Last revised: 30 Aug 2017

Kannapiran Arjunan

Independent

Date Written: January 15, 2017

Abstract

This paper introduces a new method, different from the discounted cash flow (DCF) method, for the first time, to estimate NPV and IRR. This method makes use of the capital amortization schedule (CAS). The functional relationship between the closing balance in CAS and the NPV and IRR are derived and illustrated. Accordingly, the present value of the closing balance in a CAS is the NPV and the interest rate that makes the closing balance zero is the IRR. NPV and IRR are estimated using the new method for some selected normal and non-normal net cash flow (NCF) investment projects and presented here. The estimated NPV and IRR perfectly match with the NPV and IRR estimated by the DCF method. This method is more transparent and provides a better insight into the suitability of the NPV criterion. NPV represents the unutilized NCF and when it is fully utilized, the NPV will become zero and return on invested capital will be the highest, equivalent to IRR. Also, when the cost of capital is in percentage term, the return on invested capital (ROIC) must be in percentage term like the IRR and not in two parts viz. percentage term (hurdle rate) and the balance in absolute term (NPV). The CAS method exposes the weakness of the NPV and question about its validity as a criterion in capital investment. The CAS based method also makes it implicitly clear that there is no reinvestment of the intermediate income. Modified IRR (MIRR), which is based on the assumption of reinvestment, becomes redundant when there is no reinvestment. Authors of text books and other published works related to Corporate Finance, Investment Analysis, Capital Budgeting and cost-benefit analysis may wish to review these findings and consider updating the relevant chapters or sections accordingly.

Keywords: New Method to Estimate NPV from Capital Amortization Schedule, Problems with NPV Criterion, No Reinvestment of Income, MIRR Redundant

JEL Classification: D, D61, G, G31

Suggested Citation:

Arjunan, Kannapiran, A New Method to Estimate NPV and IRR from the Capital Amortization Schedule and an Insight into Why NPV Is Not the Appropriate Criterion for Capital Investment Decision (January 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2899648 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2899648
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Kannapiran Arjunan , Karthi Kannapiran
The Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption
Cost‐benefit Analysis and the Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: Some New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption, Economic Papers, 36 ( 3), 351– 63, 2017, Pages: 27 Posted: 17 Feb 2017 Last revised: 21 Oct 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Elazar Berkovitch , Ronen Israel
Why the NPV Criterion Does Not Maximize NPV
Pages: 32 Posted: 24 Nov 1998
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Nalinaksha Bhattacharyya
Why Do Managers Prefer Irr
Pages: 22 Posted: 8 Feb 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R A Brealey , S C Myers
Principles of Corporate Finance Posted: 1996
Load more
11 Citations
Kannapiran Arjunan
IRR Performs Better than NPV: A Critical Analysis of Cases of Multiple IRR and Mutually Exclusive and Independent Investments
Revised and updated version as of 23 Aug, 2017 · 31 Pages · Posted: 10 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 14 Sep 2017 · Downloads: 1,326
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan , Karthi Kannapiran
The Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption
Cost‐benefit Analysis and the Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: Some New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption, Economic Papers, 36 ( 3), 351– 63, 2017, · 27 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2017 · Last revised: 21 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 908
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran C. Arjunan
Non‐monotonic NPV Function Leads to Spurious NPVs and Multiple IRR Problems: A New Method that Resolves these Problems
Economic Papers: A journal of applied economics and policy , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 56 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Kannapiran Arjunan
Non-monotonic NPV Function Leads to Spurious NPVs and Multiple IRR Problems: A Critical Analysis to Resolve These Problems
Non‐monotonic NPV Function Leads to Spurious NPVs and Multiple IRR Problems: A New Method that Resolves these Problems† Kannapiran C. Arjunan Economic Papers, Volume38, Issue1 March 2019 Pages 56-69. , · 22 Pages · Posted: 21 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 24 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 173
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,049
RANK
39,269
11 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies