Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Conceptual Frameworks: Masb vs. Aaoifi

15 Pages Posted: 20 Jan 2017

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Date Written: January 01, 2017

Abstract

This paper aims to present comparison of conceptual frameworks issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (MASB) (fully converge to the standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board) and the Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI). The research is motivated by the introduction of accounting standards by the AAOIFI in the 1990s to fulfil the financial reporting needs of Islamic finance industry. This is stem from the fact that the Islamic financial institutions offer products and services that are complied with Shariah principles which the fundamental objective is significantly differ than their conventional counterpart. Some scholars proposed that these different breed of organizations require different sets of accounting standards to serve their user’s unique financial information needs. However, only limited number of countries accepted and make the application of the AAOIFI accounting standards mandatory for their Islamic financial institutions. On the other hand, more than 120 countries set out that Islamic financial institutions (IFIs) in their countries to use accounting standards issued by the IFRS. The key different of both conceptual framework lies on their objective financial reporting. The objective of financial reporting for MASB is to provide useful financial information for existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors. The AAOIFI divided the objective of financial reporting into two, namely, objective of financial accounting and objective of financial reports. Consistent with Shariah requirements, the objective of financial reporting focus on determining of rights and obligations of all interested parties, to ensure all activities are in compliance with Shariah principles and to provide useful financial information to all stakeholders of Islamic financial institutions. Further analysis reveals that most of accounting principles outlined in the conceptual framework of the MASB are replicated in the AAOIFI’s conceptual framework. The AAOIFI add further principles which is associated with Shariah requirements. In the Malaysian Islamic finance industry perspective, though the regulator requires the IFIs to apply the IFRS, the Bank Negara Malaysia (i.e. Central Bank) issued relevant regulations as a guide for IFIs financial reporting and to close the gap.

Keywords: Accounting Conceptual Framework, MASB, AAOIFI, Islamic Accounting, Islamic Finance

JEL Classification: M4, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain, Accounting Conceptual Frameworks: Masb vs. Aaoifi (January 01, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2900666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2900666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting by Islamic Financial Institutions
AAOIFI Posted: 2015
M Abela , R Barker , R Sommer , Teixeira , P Andre
Towards a New Conceptual Framework: Presentations at the Accounting in Europe and European Accounting Association Financial Reporting Standards Committee Symposium
Europe , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 259 - 271 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Barker , A Lennard , C Nobes , M Trombetta , P Walton
Response of the EAA Financial Reporting Standards Committee to the IASB Discussion Paper A Review of the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
Europe , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 149 - 184 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M E Bradbury
Implications for the Conceptual Framework Arising From Accounting for Financial Instruments
Abacus , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 388 - 397 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Michael Samers , Karen Lai
Conceptualising Islamic Banking and Finance in Malaysia and Singapore: Conventional Rule Regimes, National Forms of Governance, and Islamic Financial Architectures
27 Pages · Posted: 21 Apr 2016 · Last revised: 16 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 258
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Muhammad Mukhlis Abdul Fatah , Azlan bin Md. Thani , Anuar bin Muhammad , Maisarah binti Mohamad Azhan , Nujba binti Mohamad , Nur Iylia Amni binti Ismail
The Needs and Readiness of the Islamic Banks to Adopt the Comprehensive Islamic Accounting Standards: The Malaysian Experience
Information Management and Business Review , volume 16 , issue 3(I) , p. 391 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Mustafa (Dilshod) Tuychiev , ZULKARNAIN BIN MUHAMAD SORI
Reconciling Global and Shariah-Based Accounting Standards: IFRS vs. AAOIFI in Islamic Finance
23 Pages · Posted: 30 Jan 2025 · Downloads: 396
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,437
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,977
RANK
30,939
3 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies