Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Publication, Format and Content of Integrated Reports on Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts

Forthcoming, " the Handbook of Finance and Sustainability", Boubaker, S., Cummings, D., & Nguyen, D. (Eds), Edward Elgar, 2017

28 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2017

Suhee Kim

University of Edinburgh Business School

Karen Maas

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR)

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Date Written: January 20, 2017

Abstract

Integrated Reporting (IR) has recently emerged as an accounting innovation which combines financial and non-financial/sustainability information relevant to corporate value creation into a single report. While prior research on IR examined the supply side (i.e. motivation for and content) of IR, this study focuses on the demand side of IR. We specifically investigate whether IR strengthens financial analysts’ earnings forecasts and what aspects of IR influence better forecasting. For this purpose, we conduct:

1) a within-firm analysis from a sample of IR early-adopters to measure the difference between the pre- and post-levels of forecast dispersion following the IR release and

2) a between-firm matching analysis to test whether an IR release is indeed associated with a lower dispersion.

We examine 156 IR-adopters from 18 countries in 2014 and 2015, matched with 95 non-IR firms selected as control group. The results show that a single IR (type 3) decreases the post-level of forecast dispersion of IR firms with a smaller pre-forecast dispersion in comparison with the control group. Moreover, IR completeness and detail are associated with the post-level of forecast dispersion of IR firms with smaller pre-forecast dispersion, while IR accountability (reporting more negative issues) and length have no effect on it.

Our findings suggest that an IR presenting more content elements and more detail may decrease uncertainty about a firm’s information environment and therefore strengthen analysts’ decisions.

Keywords: integrated Reporting, sustainability reporting, analyst earnings forecasts, forecast dispersion, analyst decision

JEL Classification: M5

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Suhee and Maas, Karen and Perego, Paolo, The Effect of Publication, Format and Content of Integrated Reports on Analysts’ Earnings Forecasts (January 20, 2017). Forthcoming, " the Handbook of Finance and Sustainability", Boubaker, S., Cummings, D., & Nguyen, D. (Eds), Edward Elgar, 2017 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2902549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C A Adams
The ethical, social and environmental reporting-performance portrayal gap
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 57 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Markus C. Arnold , Alexander Bassen , Ralf Frank
Integrating Sustainability Reports into Financial Statements: An Experimental Study
Pages: 44 Posted: 29 Mar 2012 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
O E Barron , O Kim , S C Lim , D E Stevens
Using analysts' forecasts to measure properties of analysts' information environment
The Accounting Review , volume 73 , issue 4 , p. 421 - 454 Posted: 1998
O E Barren , P S Stuerke
Dispersion in analysts' earnings forecasts as a measure of uncertainty
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 245 - 70 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
367
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,482
RANK
185,789
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies