Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creative Accounting- Nature, Usage, Labor and Relation with the Own Crisis Consequences in Practice in Kosovo

European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Jan - Apr 201 7 Vol. 7 Nr. 1

19 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Arbana Sahiti Ramushi

University of Prishtina - Faculty of Economics

Muhamet Aliu

University of Prishtina - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: January 22, 2017

Abstract

This project aims to provide a detailed view of the actual implementation of Creative Accounting (CA) concept amongst professionals in Pristina city. To accomplish this project I have tried to cover the below various topics: -Definitions of (CA); Motivation behind (CA); The various ways and methods in which (CA) can be assumed; Why management decides to involve in (CA); The roles of Governance, Regulators and Auditors; Ethical issues resulting from practicing (CA), and the difference between (CA) and fraud. 20 financial executives were surveyed, to determine the key factors on how they interacted with the (CA) concept and its implementation. 10 of these were semi-structured interviews. At the end, it was concluded that the complex and diverse nature of the business transactions and the autonomy existing in accounting standards and policies make it difficult to manage the issue of (CA). This does not mean that (CA) results are always incorrect. It is rather the determination, scale, materiality and timing of the disclosure which determine its true nature and justification.

Keywords: Creative Accounting, Earning Management, Income Smoothing, Accounts Manipulations, Big Bath Accounting

JEL Classification: F0, G0,G2, G3

Suggested Citation:

Sahiti Ramushi, Arbana and Aliu, Muhamet, Creative Accounting- Nature, Usage, Labor and Relation with the Own Crisis Consequences in Practice in Kosovo (January 22, 2017). European Journal of Economics and Business Studies, Jan - Apr 201 7 Vol. 7 Nr. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2903538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
V Alina , M Dumitru
Corporate Governance and Creative Accounting. Two Concepts Strongly Connected? Some Interesting Insights Highlighted by constructing the internal history of a literature Posted: 2010
S Amy
Debt-Covenant Violations and Managers. Accounting Responses
Journal of Accounting & Economics , issue 94 , p. 90030 - 90032 Posted: 1994
J Anderson , Tirrell Richard , Michael E
Too Good to Be True CEOs and Financial Reporting Fraud
Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research Posted: 2004
Crossref
C Barry , G Robert
Trust me: I'm An Auditor, International Review of Business Research Papers Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,466
RANK
411,653
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies