Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bartell and the Expansion of Facilitated Exchanges

Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 13, 2017

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 479

6 Pages Posted: 26 Jan 2017

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: January 25, 2017

Abstract

The Tax Court recently granted section 1031 nonrecognition to a title-parking reverse improvements exchange. The transaction occurred before the publication of Rev. Proc. 2000-27, so it was a non-safe-harbor arrangement, and it would have failed to satisfy the safe harbor because the facilitator held title for more than the 180 days allowed for in the safe harbor. The ruling surprised many section 1031 practitioners because it did not consider whether the facilitator had the benefits and burdens of the replacement property while it held title to it. Despite the presence of facts that indicated the exchanger acquired the benefits and burdens at the time the facilitator took title to the replacement property, the Tax Court applied a formalistic view of tax ownership to hold that the facilitator was the tax owner because it was hired to facilitate the exchange and held legal title to the property. This case becomes another in a long line of cases that have applied a formalistic view of tax law to section 1031 exchanges. Even though the ruling surprised many members of the section 1031 industry, it does reflect the Tax Court’s interpretation of the tax ownership in the section 1031 context.

Keywords: Section 1031 exchange, improvements exchange, Rev. Proc. 2000-37, Rev. Proc. 2004-51, section 1031 reverse exchange, title-parking exchange

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Bartell and the Expansion of Facilitated Exchanges (January 25, 2017). Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 13, 2017, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 479, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2905920
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,350
RANK
627,303
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies