Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creative Accounting as a Double Sided Coin

18 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2017

Prof. Godwin Emmanuel Oyedokun

Lead City University Ibadan Nigeria ; OGE Professional Services Ltd; Nasarawa State University, Keffi

Date Written: March 15, 2016

Abstract

This paper reviews the concept of creative accounting viz-a-viz other related concepts such as aggressive earnings management, window dressing. The place of ethics and justification for the employment of creative account was also considered. The study employed contents analysis as research design and finds that it is a matter of interpretation and considered view, creative accounting is not a bad concept.

Keywords: Aggressive Earnings, Creative Accounting, Earnings Management, Window Dressing, Fraud, Account Manipulation

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Oyedokun, Godwin Emmanuel, Creative Accounting as a Double Sided Coin (March 15, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2913126 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2913126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
The entity's objectives, policies, and processes for managing capital 2. Quantitative data about what the entity regards as capital. 3. Whether the entity complies with any capital (adequacy) requirements 4. Consequences of noncompliance with capital requirements where applicable 5. For each class of share capital: 6. Number of shares authorized 7. Number of shares issued and fully paid 8. Number of shares issued and not fully paid 9. The Par value per share, or that it has no par value 10. Reconciliation of shares at beginning and at the end of year 11
I R Akintoye
Corporate Governance and Reporting. A Paper presented at the Interactive Forum For Accountants In Education being organised by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria(ICAN) held in Lagos Posted: 2010
B Diana , P C Madalina
Is creative accounting a form of manipulation
S Gailmard
Accountability and Principal-Agent Models. Chapter prepared for the Oxford Handbook of Public Accountability Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,650
RANK
264,566
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies