Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRR Performs Better than NPV: A Critical Analysis of Cases of Multiple IRR and Mutually Exclusive and Independent Investments

Revised and updated version as of 23 Aug, 2017

31 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2017 Last revised: 30 Aug 2017

Kannapiran Arjunan

Independent

Abstract

This paper presents evidence to identify the appropriate investment criterion (IRR vs NPV) with emphasis on the controversial reinvestment assumption, multiple, negative, zero and no IRR, mutually exclusive investment and independent projects. The analysis is based on the estimated return of capital (ROC), return on invested capital (ROIC), capital amortization schedule (CAS) and the modified CAS (MCAS). The salient findings are:

a. There is no reinvestment of intermediate income in normal net cash flow (NCF) investments. Incidences of reinvestment is evident in some of the non-normal NCF (NNCF) investments where the opening balance (OB) in the CAS is positive. The generalized assertion of reinvestment at IRR or at hurdle rate with IRR and NPV, respectively, is not valid except in the case of some NNCF.

b. The problem of multiple IRR is caused by reinvestment of intermediate income in some non-normal NCF (NNCF) investments. MCAS method eliminates the reinvestment income from the NNCF data and resolves the problem of multiple IRR and leads to unique IRR.

c. There is no IRR when there is no investment in zero year or investment year or there is no negative cash flow and no sign change. Negative IRR is common when the sum of NNCF is negative that and reveals capital loss (ROC not fully recovered). When the sum of NNCF is zero, the IRR will be zero. Zero IRR indicates that the NNCF is sufficient to recover the capital cost (ROC) and ROIC not recovered.

d. In the case of mutually exclusive projects, selecting projects based on NPV at hurdle rate is misleading. A project selected based on higher NPV at hurdle rate ends-up with negative NPV when discounted by the higher IRR achieved by the counterpart project (with lower NPV). In the case of counterpart project, the NPV is not negative but zero at that higher IRR as the discount rate. This weakness of NPV is not exposed as NPV is a static point estimate (at hurdle rate). The NPV is not an appropriate criterion.

e. Among a range of discount rates tried, IRR is the only rate that indicates the full utilization of the NCF (makes the NPV zero) and the maximum feasible ROIC (=IRR). IRR therefore performs better than the NPV to select or rank independent or mutually exclusive projects. NPV is the unutilized NCF and a static point estimate. NPV therefore provides incomplete information at hurdle rate. It fails to indicate the full ROIC that the Net cash flow (NCF) could support. NPV at hurdle rate can at best indicate whether the NCF is fully utilized (NPV = 0) or not fully utilized (positive NPV) or not adequate to cover the cost of capital (negative NPV), respectively. IRR, in contrast, explicitly indicates that the NCF is fully utilized (NPV and the closing balance (CB) in CAS are ‘0’) and the ROIC plus ROC are fully recovered.

f. The modified IRR (MIRR) is not a solution to the problem of multiple IRR. MIRR assumes and includes reinvestment income without any evidence of reinvestment and therefore MIRR is a spurious estimate. The problem of reinvestment and the resultant multiple IRR is resolved by eliminating the reinvestment income under MCAS method and therefore IRR is unique.

These results consistently support the conclusion that IRR is the best criterion to accept or reject or rank mutually exclusive projects as well as independent projects. NPV will still be useful in other areas to estimate the present value. Authors of finance and economic textbooks and other publications may wish to review and consider appropriately update the sections on CBA or capital investment or capital budgeting.

Keywords: Capital Investment Decision, IRR performs better than NPV, Multiple IRR and Mutually Exclusive Projects

JEL Classification: D, D61, G3, G31, O2, O22, O12

Suggested Citation:

Arjunan, Kannapiran, IRR Performs Better than NPV: A Critical Analysis of Cases of Multiple IRR and Mutually Exclusive and Independent Investments. Revised and updated version as of 23 Aug, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2913905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2913905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Kannapiran Arjunan
A New Method to Estimate NPV and IRR from the Capital Amortization Schedule and an Insight into Why NPV Is Not the Appropriate Criterion for Capital Investment Decision
Pages: 17 Posted: 19 Jan 2017 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
A Resolution to the Multiple IRR Problem: A New Method (Modified Capital Amortization Schedule (MCAS) Method) That Eliminates Multiple IRR and Leads to a Real and Unique IRR
Pages: 24 Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 28 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
Modified IRR (MIRR) Is a Spurious Criterion and Should Not Be Used in Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) and Investment Analysis
Forthcoming in the Journal of Economic and Finance Education Pages: 29 Posted: 3 Apr 2017 Last revised: 19 Apr 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
E Berkovitch , R Israel
Why the NPV Criterion does not Maximize NPV
Review of Finance Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 239 - 255 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,326
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,095
RANK
34,847
10 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies