Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption

Cost‐benefit Analysis and the Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: Some New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption, Economic Papers, 36 ( 3), 351– 63, 2017

27 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2017 Last revised: 21 Oct 2019

Kannapiran Arjunan

Independent

Karthi Kannapiran

Macquarie Bank Ltd.

Date Written: February 16, 2017

Abstract

The reliability of capital investment analysis is often questioned because of the controversy surrounding the assumption of reinvestment of the intermediate income in the estimation of IRR and NPV. A simulation study is conducted to test the validity of this assumption. The simulation involves a factual run ‘without reinvestment’ and a counterfactual run ‘with reinvestment’ as the introduced shock. The result provides sufficient evidence that there is no reinvestment of intermediate income in the IRR or NPV estimates. IRR or NPV only reflects the intrinsic value of the net benefits to recover the ‘return of and on capital’ invested. Instead, there is progressive divestment of capital invested during the life of the investment. The future value of the divested capital, if reinvested elsewhere at IRR as the rate, offsets the capital cost that is often confused as reinvestment. The result is consistent under both normal and non-normal cash flow projects. Obviously, text books dealing with capital investment analysis should move away from such an assumption. The current capital investment analysis using the IRR and NPV is, therefore, reliable. Also, the MIRR estimate that is based on reinvestment assumption must be critically reviewed along with other limitations. With reinvestment assumption, the MIRR collapses to IRR and becomes redundant.

Keywords: CBA and Capital Investment, Validity of Reinvestment Assumption, New Evidence

JEL Classification: D, D61, G, G31, O2, O22

Suggested Citation:

Arjunan, Kannapiran and Kannapiran, Karthi, The Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption (February 16, 2017). Cost‐benefit Analysis and the Controversial Reinvestment Assumption in IRR and NPV Estimates: Some New Evidence against Reinvestment Assumption, Economic Papers, 36 ( 3), 351– 63, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2918744 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2918744
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Kannapiran Arjunan
A New Method to Estimate NPV and IRR from the Capital Amortization Schedule and an Insight into Why NPV Is Not the Appropriate Criterion for Capital Investment Decision
Pages: 17 Posted: 19 Jan 2017 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Armen A Alchian
The Rate of Interest, Fisher's Rate of Return over Costs and Keynes' Internal Rate of Return
The American Economic Review , volume 45 , p. 938 - 943 Posted: 1955
Tom Arnold , Terry Nixon , H Baker , Phillip Kent , English
Capital Budgeting Valuation: Financial Analysis for Today's Investment Projects , p. 79 - 94 Posted: 2011
Robert G Beaves
Net Present Value and Rate of Return: Implicit and Explicit Reinvestment Assumptions
The Engineering Economist , volume 33 , p. 275 - 302 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
908
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,144
RANK
59,810
6 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies