Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Permanent Establishment in Canada

Provencher, Annick, "Permanent Establishment in Canada" in Vidal, Jean-Pierre (ed.), Introduction to International Tax in Canada, Toronto, Carswell, 2016, p. 243-290.

Posted: 23 Feb 2017

Annick Provencher

University of Montreal - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 1, 2016

Abstract

Canadian residents have to pay income tax in Canada on income from all sources, whether earned in or outside of Canada. Non-residents of Canada can also be subjected to income tax in Canada in certain circumstances. According to subsection 2(3) of the Income Tax Act, an income tax shall be paid on the taxable income of a non-resident of Canada if he was employed in Canada, if he disposed of a taxable Canadian property, or if he carried on a business in Canada. Only if a business is carried on in Canada will the income it generates be subjected to Canadian income tax. This chapter will first define the meaning of “carrying on business in Canada.”

Notwithstanding any tax treaties, the definition of “business” conjugated to the deeming provision of section 253 of the Act demonstrates that the threshold for carrying on a business in Canada is very low. The fear of unwittingly creating a liability in a State may have a significant impact on trade and prosperity. Consequently, tax treaties protect taxpayers against a liability too easily triggered, either in Canada or elsewhere in the world. Canadian tax treaties limit Canada’s jurisdictional right to tax income from carrying on business in Canada to businesses carried on only through a permanent establishment. The second part of this chapter will elaborate on the concept of “permanent establishment.”

Keywords: Tax, International Taxation, Permanent Establishment

Suggested Citation:

Provencher, Annick, Permanent Establishment in Canada (August 1, 2016). Provencher, Annick, "Permanent Establishment in Canada" in Vidal, Jean-Pierre (ed.), Introduction to International Tax in Canada, Toronto, Carswell, 2016, p. 243-290., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2920725
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,035
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies