Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Residence in Canada

Provencher, Annick, Jean-Pierre Vidal, Marie-Pierre Allard and Chantal Bélanger, "Residence in Canada" in Vidal, Jean-Pierre (ed.), Introduction to International Tax in Canada, Toronto, Carswell, 2016 at pp. 187-231.

Posted: 24 Feb 2017

Annick Provencher

University of Montreal - Faculty of Law

Date Written: August 8, 2016

Abstract

Canadian residence affords people a very specific set of rights and responsibilities in the tax legislations in Canada. In the Income Tax Act, there are many other instances where a specific fact has tax consequences, however, none is more important than the fact of residence. This is highlighted in sections 2 and 3 of the ITA, which establish the broad structure for what comes in the thousands of pages that follow, a structure which depends very significantly upon residence. The question of residence is, thus, probably the most fundamental tax question that can be asked. In order to define this notion, the first step is to use the established criteria without taking into account the coordinating mechanisms Canada has with other countries. The second step is to take these coordinating mechanisms into account.

Keywords: Taxation, International Taxation, Residence in Canada

Suggested Citation:

Provencher, Annick, Residence in Canada (August 8, 2016). Provencher, Annick, Jean-Pierre Vidal, Marie-Pierre Allard and Chantal Bélanger, "Residence in Canada" in Vidal, Jean-Pierre (ed.), Introduction to International Tax in Canada, Toronto, Carswell, 2016 at pp. 187-231., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2922638
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
865
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies