Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules – Evidence from Sweden

Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, A journal of the European Accounting Association

22 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2017

Jan Peter Marton

University of Gothenburg

Date Written: March 7, 2017

Abstract

In this paper, the influence of IFRS on Swedish national accounting rules is analyzed. The lawmaker’s and standard setters’ response to EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU is studied, as well as the use of IFRS in enforcement. The conclusion is that IFRS have a strong position and legitimacy in Swedish financial reporting.

Keywords: Sweden, EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU, IFRS, SME

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Marton, Jan Peter, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules – Evidence from Sweden (March 7, 2017). Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, A journal of the European Accounting Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S Jönsson , J Marton
Sweden
The regulation of financial reporting in the Nordic countries , p. 181 - 230 Posted: 1994
C Norberg , P Thorell
Redovisningsfrågor i skattepraxis Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,585
RANK
493,078
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies