Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Shelter Disclosure and Penalties: New Requirements, New Exposures

Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 18, No. 3, Jan/Feb 2005

Posted: 20 Mar 2017

Mary A. McNulty

Thompson & Knight LLP

Robert Probasco

Texas A&M University School of Law

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 1, 2005

Abstract

One of the primary weapons in the battle against tax shelters has been mandatory disclosure to the IRS. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 built on this approach by clarifying and making consistent the various disclosure requirements and strengthening penalties for non-disclosure. To uncover abusive transactions, Congress drew the boundaries of disclosure so broadly that even legitimate tax planning transactions are covered. To understand the dangers in the new rules, one must look at the broad range of transactions covered, the participants covered, and the harsh penalties for nondisclosure.

- Transactions Covered. The disclosure requirements apply to six categories of "reportable transactions." Although the Service has established "angel lists" excluding some transactions from the broad definitions, many clearly legitimate transactions still will have to be disclosed.

- Participants Covered. The disclosure requirements apply to participants in the transaction and material advisors, which are also broadly defined terms. For example, an exempt organization that is an accommodation party in a reportable transaction is a participant, even though the exempt organization does not receive any tax benefits from the transaction.

- Penalties. The Act added a new penalty for a taxpayer's failure to disclose a reportable transaction. This penalty applies even if a court rejects the Service's view of the tax treatment of the transaction. The Act also strengthened the accuracy-related penalty for underpayments. However, this penalty is imposed only if the Service successfully challenges the tax treatment of the transaction.

The new tax shelter disclosure and list maintenance requirements are complex, with significant penalties for non-compliance. The IRS is likely to apply these penalties strictly and aggressively. Anyone involved in virtually any capacity in any substantial transaction will need to evaluate their exposure carefully

Keywords: tax, Internal Revenue Service, reportable transactions, listed transactions, American Jobs Creation Act, disclosure, list maintenance, penalties

Suggested Citation:

McNulty, Mary A. and Probasco, Robert, Tax Shelter Disclosure and Penalties: New Requirements, New Exposures (January 1, 2005). Journal of Taxation and Regulation of Financial Institutions, Vol. 18, No. 3, Jan/Feb 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928879
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies