Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules - Evidence from Croatia

Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association

19 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2017

Slavko Sodan

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

Zeljana Aljinovic Barac

University of Split - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: February 27, 2017

Abstract

We examine the changes in Croatian accounting regulation, in the context of 2013/34/EU Directive implementation and analyse indirect effects of IFRS on national reporting regulation for non-listed companies. The main goal is to determine the level of conformity between Croatian accounting rules and IFRS as adopted by EU. Analysis shows that IFRS are used in the great extent as a source for provisions in Croatian Financial Reporting Standards (CFRS). There are only a few major differences between Croatian financial reporting standards and IFRS. However, there are a number of IFRS standards that are considered not to be relevant in the context of CFRS, as CFRS are intended to be used only by SMEs. Nevertheless, the management is permitted to use provisions and guidance from IFRS, if CFRS provisions are not applicable to a certain transaction or event.

Keywords: accounting harmonization; national accounting rules; IFRS; EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU; Croatia

JEL Classification: M41, M48, K22

Suggested Citation:

Sodan, Slavko and Aljinovic Barac, Zeljana, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules - Evidence from Croatia (February 27, 2017). Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Accounting Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia Posted: 1992
Accounting Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia Posted: 2005
Accounting Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia Posted: 2007
Accounting Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,040
RANK
623,124
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies