Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules. Evidence from Denmark

Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe

16 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2017

Frank Thinggaard

University of Aarhus - Aarhus School of Business

Date Written: March 7, 2017

Abstract

I analyse the influence of IFRS on the Danish accounting regulation based on the EU Accounting Directive. In Denmark, the EU Accounting Directive is brought into force through the Danish Financial Statements Act. The analysis shows that the provisions in the Act are aligned with the IFRS to a great extent. It also shows that the Danish legislators extensively refer to IFRS and that they consider the IFRS to be the source to use for completing the national rules. I additionally show that the enforcers of the Danish Financial Statements Act look to the IFRS for guidance when they interpret the provisions, and that many important stakeholders have a positive attitude towards the use of IFRS for non-listed companies. The conclusion is that IFRS standards play a decisive role and have strong legitimacy in Denmark.

Keywords: IFRS, EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU, Harmonization, Denmark

Suggested Citation:

Thinggaard, Frank, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules. Evidence from Denmark (March 7, 2017). Forthcoming in Accounting in Europe, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2928657 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2928657
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Peter Blume
Legal method in Danish law Posted: 2011
Damvad
Brugen af årsrapporter for mindre virksomheder - Analyse udarbejdet af DAMVAD for Erhvervsstyrelsen (The use of financial reports for smaller entities - An analysis by DAMVAD for the Danish Business Authority Posted: 2014
Høringsnotat og høringssvar, fra erhvervs- og vaekstministeren - Oversigt over høringssvar (L 117, appendix 1, Consultation Memo and responses, from the minister of business and growth - Overview of comment letters
L 117 , volume 1 Posted: 2015
Erhvervsstyrelsen
Kontrol af årsrapporten for perioden 1. juli - 31. december 2014 for Hesalight A/S, CVR-nr
Control of the financial report for the period 1 , volume 32 Posted: 2014-12
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,472
RANK
508,508
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies