Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules - Evidence from Switzerland

Forthcoming, Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association

9 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2017

Bernard Raffournier

University of Geneva

Date Written: March 10, 2017

Abstract

Although Switzerland is not a member of the European Union, the EU directives have largely influenced the Swiss accounting regulation. IFRS also have been highly influential since many large companies used them long before they became mandatory for listed firms. Moreover IFRS served as a benchmark for the development of Swiss GAAP. This article compares the current Swiss accounting regulation to the new EU accounting directive and to IFRS. Despite many similarities, the Swiss regulation retains major specificities, the most notable being the permission of hidden reserves.

Keywords: EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU, SMEs

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Raffournier, Bernard, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules - Evidence from Switzerland (March 10, 2017). Forthcoming, Accounting in Europe, a journal of the European Accounting Association, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2930978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
A.-K Achleitner
Latest developments in Swiss regulation of financial reporting
The European Accounting Review , volume 4 , p. 141 - 154 Posted: 1995
Crossref
T Berndt , Y Hochreutener , J Vial
Januar 11). Versuchslabor für Rechnungslegung Posted: 2014
Virtschaft Finanz Und
Crossref
P Dumontier , B Raffournier
Why firms comply voluntarily with IAS: an empirical analysis with Swiss data
Journal of International Financial Management and Accounting , volume 9 , p. 216 - 245 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
335
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,176
RANK
205,565
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies