Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of the Security Controls of Computerized Accounting Information Systems (CAIS) in the Selected Listed Companies in Sri Lanka

Proceedings of the 15th Americas Conference on Information Systems; 2009; San Francisco, CA

21 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2017

Nadarajah Rajeshwaran

Eastern University

Kennedy Gunawardana

University of Sri Jayewardenepura

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

The rapid development of IT, availability of user friendly accounting software and the increased competition have forced companies to adapt CAIS in order to remain competitive whereas threats to CAIS are unavoidable in the dynamic environment. In this scenario, security controls of CAIS are vital to the organizations. This study examines the existence and adequacy of implemented computerized accounting information system (CAIS) security controls to prevent, detect and correct security breaches in the selected listed companies in Sri Lanka. An empirical survey using a selfadministered questionnaire has been carried out to achieve the objective. 41 out of 118 usable questionnaires have been collected to different types o cais f companies representing 13 out of 20 sectors from 4th November to 10th December 2008. The results of the study spotlight a number of inadequately implemented CAIS security controls and significant differences among listed companies regarding the adequacy of implemented CAIS security controls. Based on the findings, some recommendations are given to strengthen the breaches in the present CAIS security controls in the listed companies. Findings of this study help accountants, auditors, managers, and IT users to better understand and secure their CAIS in order to achieve success of their visions.

Keywords: Accounting, Computer Security Control, Information Systems, Information Technology

Suggested Citation:

Rajeshwaran, Nadarajah and Gunawardana, Kennedy, An Empirical Investigation of the Security Controls of Computerized Accounting Information Systems (CAIS) in the Selected Listed Companies in Sri Lanka (2009). Proceedings of the 15th Americas Conference on Information Systems; 2009; San Francisco, CA, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2932672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A A Abu-Musa
Investigating the security controls of CAIS in an emerging economy: an empirical study on Egyptian banking industry
The Journal of Managerial Auditing , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 272 - 302 Posted: 2004
A A Abu-Musa
Exploring perceived threats of CAIS in developing countries: the case of Saudi Arabia
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A A Abu-Musa
Evaluating the security controls of CAIS in developing countries: An examination of current research
Information Management and Computer Security , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 63 Posted: 2007
A A Abu-Musa
Evaluating the security controls of CAIS in developing countries: an empirical investigation
Information Management and Computer Security , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 128 - 148 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
249,957
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies