Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules – Evidence from Poland

Klimczak, K. M., & Krasodomska, J. (2017). The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting rules–Evidence from Poland. Accounting in Europe, 14(1-2), 158-163

9 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2017 Last revised: 15 Nov 2017

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Joanna Krasodomska

Cracow University of Economics

Date Written: March 24, 2017

Abstract

We outline the process of implementation of the accounting Directive 2013/34/EU by the Republic of Poland in the context of references to IFRS. The purpose of the article is to determine to what extent IFRS are used by actors taking part in the legislative and enforcement processes. The accounting regulation in Poland comprises an act of Parliament and the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. As a result the regulation is relatively succinct and many elements present in IFRS are not covered, while the issues of record-keeping and verification of accounting documentation receive more attention. A review of the responses to a call for opinions reveals that IFRS are rarely mentioned.

Keywords: statutory accounting, IFRS, Poland, SME, EU Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU

JEL Classification: M41, M48, N20, P2

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek and Krasodomska, Joanna, The Role and Current Status of IFRS in the Completion of National Accounting Rules – Evidence from Poland (March 24, 2017). Klimczak, K. M., & Krasodomska, J. (2017). The role and current status of IFRS in the completion of national accounting rules–Evidence from Poland. Accounting in Europe, 14(1-2), 158-163, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2932760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Deloitte
Praktyczny przewodnik po MSSF. Zawiera porównanie MSSF z Ustawą o Rachunkowości (z uwzględnieniem znowelizowanej Ustawy o Rachunkowości obowiązującej od 2016 roku) [The wachmaker's precision. Practical guide to IFRS
Contains a comparison of IFRS with the Accounting Act Posted: 2016
K Grabiński , M Kędzior , J Krasodomska
The Polish accounting system and IFRS implementation process in the view of empirical research. Accounting and Management Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 281 - 310 Posted: 2014
A Jaruga , J Fijalkowska , M Jaruga-Baranowska , M Frendzel
The Impact of IAS/IFRS on Polish Accounting Regulations and their Practical Implementation in Poland , volume 4 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N King , A Beattie , A.-M Cristescu , P Weetman
Developing accounting and audit in a transition economy: the Romanian experience
European Accounting Review , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 149 - 171 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
RANK
753,736
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies