Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advocating A Carryover Tax Basis Regime

93 Notre Dame Law Review 109 (2017)

UNC Legal Studies Research Paper

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2017-27

46 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 1 Dec 2017

Richard Schmalbeck

Duke University School of Law

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Kathleen DeLaney Thomas

University of North Carolina School of Law

Date Written: March 17, 2017

Abstract

For close to a century, an important (but unfortunate) feature of the Internal Revenue Code has been a rule that the tax basis of any asset is made equal to its fair market value at death. Notwithstanding the substantial revenue losses associated with this rule, Congress has retained it for reasons of administrative convenience.

But from three different vantage points, pressure has been mounting to change what is commonly referred to as the “step-up in basis rule.” First, politicians and commentators have historically tied the step-up in basis rule to the estate tax on the theory that income be taxed only once, rather than twice. However, with the recent emasculation of the transfer tax regime, no estate tax is levied in most cases, while taxpayers routinely capitalize on the step-up in basis rule. On another front, technological advances have greatly simplified tax basis identification and record keeping, making a carryover tax basis regime eminently feasible, which it previously was not. Finally, in an era of growing income inequality, retention of a rule that primarily benefits the wealthy seems wholly unjustified, necessitating reform.

Congress essentially has two different reform options to consider, namely, a deemed realization rule or a carryover tax basis rule. While a deemed realization rule has many advantages, it appears to be politically unachievable, at least for the time being, due to liquidity and administrative concerns. On the other hand, in light of the fact that a carryover tax basis rule is widely utilized, vetted, and accepted in the related context of inter vivos gift giving, extending its application to transfers at death appears entirely feasible. Its institution would have many virtues, including improved administrability, equity, and revenue generation.

Keywords: Taxation, estate tax, tax policy, step-up in basis, section 1014

JEL Classification: K34, H20, H21, H22, H24, H29

Suggested Citation:

Schmalbeck, Richard L. and Soled, Jay and Thomas, Kathleen DeLaney, Advocating A Carryover Tax Basis Regime (March 17, 2017). 93 Notre Dame Law Review 109 (2017), UNC Legal Studies Research Paper, Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Series No. 2017-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2935317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Romina Boccia , Heritage Found , Federal , By , Numbers
GOVERNMENT SPENDING TRENDS IN GRAPHICS , volume 2 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Comm See Generally , For A Responsible Fed , Budget
FY 2015 DEFICIT FALLS TO $439 BILLION, BUT DEBT CONTINUES TO RISE Posted: 2015-10-15
Crossref
P Dana , Goldman &amp; Neeraj , Sood
Rising Medicare Costs: Are We in Crisis?
25 HEALTH AFFAIRS , volume 389 Posted: 2006
E G See , Christina D Romer
The Rock and the Hard Place on the Deficit
N.Y. TIMES Posted: 2011-07-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
279
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,513
RANK
249,957
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Duke Law School Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

University of North Carolina Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies