Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A System of Innovative Management Accounting Practices for Egyptian Manufacturers

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 1, 2017

35 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2017

Sherine Farouk Abdel Al

Abu Dhabi University

John Daniel McLellan

Abu Dhabi University

Date Written: March 19, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the use of recently developed, strategically focused management accounting techniques by Egyptian managers and to compare the adoption rate to other MENA countries as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. In addition, the paper aims at developing a system of innovative management accounting practices to assist Egyptian manufacturers be more strategically focused.

Data was collected from the management of two hundred and fifteen Egyptian manufacturers on their use of a number of the recently developed management accounting practices. Results were compared to similar surveys of businesses in other MENA countries. Data was also collected on Egyptian manager’s perception to the strategic priorities and relative performance of their companies.

Results indicate that approximately seventy-five percent of Egyptian manufacturers do not use activity based costing/activity based management, balanced scorecard or benchmarking techniques in the management of their businesses. Also, eighty percent of respondents indicate that the strategic priority for their company is to be a low cost producer. Respondents also stated that their firms were not performing at a high level.

It is for that reason that the secondary purpose for this study was to examine the innovative management accounting literature to inform Egyptian management on the effective and efficient implementation of Activity based costing/Activity based management, balanced scorecard and benchmarking practices as management practices in their firm.

This paper puts forth a “system” of innovative management accounting practices for managers to adapt to their respective business operations.

Keywords: Activity Based costing, Activity Based management, the Balanced Scorecard, Value chain analysis, Benchmarking, Knowledge management

JEL Classification: L60, L74, M40, O53

Suggested Citation:

Farouk Abdel Al, Sherine and McLellan, John Daniel, A System of Innovative Management Accounting Practices for Egyptian Manufacturers (March 19, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 18, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2937483
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
R Anthony , V Govindarajan
Posted: 2001
Crossref
D Armaratunga , D Baldry , M Sarshar
Process improvement through performance measurement: The methodology
Work Study , volume 50 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 179 - 188 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W P Birkett
Management Accounting and Knowledge Management
Management Accounting , volume 77 Posted: 1995-11-05
S Cadez , C Guilding
Benchmarking the incidence of strategic management accounting in Slovenia
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 3 , p. 126 - 146 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
212
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,298
RANK
328,705
7 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies