Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Human Capital Theory of Alimony and Tax

George Mason Law Review, Vol. 25, No. 2, 2018

70 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2017 Last revised: 16 Jul 2018

Tessa Davis

University of South Carolina - Joseph F. Rice School of Law

Date Written: March 20, 2017

Abstract

The current taxation of alimony is a broken scheme. Severed from any strong theoretical mooring, it draws lines in the sand between property settlement, child support, and alimony. The lack of coherence between the substance of alimony in family law and the tax concept of alimony (“tax alimony”) could be justified on other policy grounds, however. Yet current law, which allows the payor a deduction under §215 and requires inclusion by the recipient per §71, is difficult to interpret, resulting in frequent litigation and costly noncompliance. In short, the current concept of tax alimony fails to satisfy any of the three traditional metrics of tax policy — fairness, efficiency, or administrability — while also failing to consistently track the substance of the payment under family law. This Article argues that returning to family law theory provides a way forward for reforming the tax treatment of alimony. Specifically, this Article argues that family law theories of alimony support keeping alimony in the tax base of the payor (repealing §215) and excluding alimony received from the base of the recipient (repealing §71).

Keywords: Tax, Tax policy, Family law, Alimony, Human capital, Internal Revenue Code, Maintenance, Support

Suggested Citation:

Davis, Tessa, A Human Capital Theory of Alimony and Tax (March 20, 2017). George Mason Law Review, Vol. 25, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Many discussions of tax and human capital arise in one of three areas: taxation of educational costs, personal injury awards, and optimal tax theory. To gain a sense of the discussions (which overlap in many pieces), see Michael Simkovic, The Knowledge Tax Posted: 2015
David
Louis Kaplow, Human Capital in an Ideal Income Tax
Reforming the Taxation of Human Capital: A Modest Proposal for Promoting Economic Growth , p. 1389 - 1397 Posted: 1994
Dodge
Taxes and Torts Posted: 1992
Lawrence A Zelenak
The Reification of Metaphor: Income Taxes, Consumption Taxes and Human Capital Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,841
RANK
730,413
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies