Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying the Uniform System of Accounts for the Lodging Industry (USALI) for the Purposes of Financial and Management Accounting

Izvestiya, Volume 60, No. 2, 2016

14 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2017

Dragan Georgiev

University of Economics - Varna

Date Written: March 21, 2017

Abstract

Since long time ago uniform systems of accounts have been developed in many industries for the purposes of accounting, control and management of enterprises, as in the hospitality industry was created so named USALI (Uniform System of Accounts for the Lodging Industry). A study conducted in enterprises of the mentioned sector in Bulgaria in 2014, found that an extremely small share of their financial specialists know USALI, yet most of them are seriously interested in this tool of management accounting. The aim of the article is to survey the Uniform system in the following key aspects for the financial professionals: origin, development, basic principles, essential characteristics, benefits from its implementation, shortcomings and the taken measures for their overcome by the developers of the system.

Keywords: Uniform system of accounts, lodging industry, management accounting, financial accounting, hotels

Suggested Citation:

Georgiev, Dragan, Applying the Uniform System of Accounts for the Lodging Industry (USALI) for the Purposes of Financial and Management Accounting (March 21, 2017). Izvestiya, Volume 60, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2938749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
An Atanasova
Sastoyanie na upravlenskoto schetovodstvo v Balgariarezultati ot empirichno izsledvane Posted: 2015
An Atanasova
Organizatsia na upravlenskoto schetovodstvo. Sbornik s dokladi ot mezhdunarodna nauchna konferenziya: Ikonomika v promenyashtia se svyat: natsionalni, regionalni I globalni izmereniya, Tom 2. Universitetsko izdatelstvo "Nauka I Ikonomika , p. 195 - 207 Posted: 2015
D Vinogradov , An Levina
Ispolzovanie standartov USALI v gostinichnom biznese. Avtomatizatsiya I bezopasnost v sfere uslug Posted: 2009
Dr Georgiev
Spetsifichni aspekti na prilozhenie na zavisimostta "razhodi-obem-pechalba" v hotelierstvoto (na baza na visokokategoriinite hotelski kompleksi po balgarskoto Chernomorie). Dissertation Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
470
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,760
RANK
139,795
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies