Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Gifting: Harmonizing the Devolution of Reorganization Plan Gifts and the Evolution of Sale Gifts

Note, 39 Cardozo Law Review 787 (2017)

36 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2017 Last revised: 3 Apr 2018

Reuben Dizengoff

Independent

Date Written: March 4, 2017

Abstract

When a company’s liabilities far exceed asset value, how to structure a plan of reorganization presents a vexing issue that plagues the board room. The conundrum faced by a debtor is how to restructure corporate assets when faced with the inability to propose a confirmable reorganization plan. Corporate debtors struggle with circumstances where (i) dissenting classes will reject the plan; (ii) the debtor cannot cram a plan over the objection of a secured creditor; (iii) the daunting confirmation battle that will cost millions; and (iv) the inherent risks to the enterprise occasioned by a prolonged stay in Chapter 11. Creative debtors and their supporters (creditors who like the proposed chapter 11 plan) have attempted to redirect part of their plan distributions to junior stakeholders with the intention of ‘buying’ support for the plan of reorganization. By deploying part of their expected distributions, senior creditors “gift” these proceeds to a constituency who otherwise would not be entitled to a recovery by virtue of strict compliance with the absolute priority rule (APR). Courts have rejected this approach. Against this backdrop, the Bankruptcy Code provides multiple restructuring alternatives, including section 363, which authorizes a debtor to sell its assets free and clear of liens, claims and encumbrances.

Does a Bankruptcy Code section 363 sale allow a purchaser of the debtor’s assets to redirect those assets to satisfy claims outside of the Bankruptcy Code’s payment hierarchy? The purchaser’s directed payments outside of the strictures of the APR juxtapose competing interests in the restructuring arena, namely the Bankruptcy Code’s hierarchical payment structure against the needs of a company aiming to stay intact as a going concern. Bankruptcy Code 363 sales provide an effective vehicle to manufacture a result around the constraints imposed by the APR and the case law interpreting it. Absent an amendment to Bankruptcy Code section 1129(b) (which is proposed in this Note and would remedy the temporal problems stemming from the courts that disapprove of gifts as violating the APR), Bankruptcy Code section 363 sales — pursuant to which a purchaser redirects assets to satisfy certain creditors — best achieve the goals of Chapter 11 when a reorganization plan cannot be confirmed.

When the courts stomped on plan gifts as violating the APR, Bankruptcy Code section 363 sales became the best vehicle to achieve the end results without running afoul of the APR. The proposed amendment to Bankruptcy Code section 1129 would obviate these end runs around the APR by creating an exception to the APR which recognizes that despite being “property of the estate,” plan distributions are functionally creditors assets (and temporally become so after the effective date of a plan) which they should be free to gift as they see fit.

Keywords: Bankruptcy, Bankruptcy Code, Reorganization Plan, Gift, Gifting, Absolute Priority Rule, LifeCare

Suggested Citation:

Dizengoff, Reuben, Beyond Gifting: Harmonizing the Devolution of Reorganization Plan Gifts and the Evolution of Sale Gifts (March 4, 2017). Note, 39 Cardozo Law Review 787 (2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2939750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
See Mooney
However, the distributional scheme under Chapter 7 is every bit as rigid as that under Chapter 11. The relevant inquiry, then, is whether gifting is a permissible means of allowing a junior creditor's recovery to the exclusion of a senior creditor , volume 746
See Lauren , E Mcdivitt , Comment
What Do You Mean There Won't Be Gifts This Year?: Why Practitioners Cannot Rely Upon Gifting Provisions in Chapter 11 Reorganization Plans in the Fifth Circuit Posted: 2012
Tex. 1993) and In re Genesis Health Ventures, Inc., 266 B.R. 591 (Bankr. D. Del. 2001) as false glimmers of hope for gifting practices); see also In re Armstrong World Indus
Inc., 432 F.3d , volume 507 , p. 513 - 527
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
919
RANK
812,770
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies