Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Timing of Rating Changes

46 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2017

Pepa Kraft

HEC Paris

Yuan Xie

Fordham University

Ling Zhou

University of New Mexico

Date Written: April 5, 2017

Abstract

This study examines whether and how a major credit rating agency, S&P, strategically times the release of rating changes in an intraday setting. We find that the proportion of downgrades announced after regular trading hours is higher than upgrades. We find that credit rating agencies are more likely to announce downgrades after hours when they have relatively larger consequences and are unexpected. Specifically, rating agencies are more likely to announce downgrades after hours for financial firms, whose business model depends on high ratings, and downgrades for firms not previously on the watch-list. We also find that agencies are more likely to announce downgrades after hours when they occur on days with many rating changes. Overall, our results support the idea that S&P announces downgrades after hours to facilitate information dissemination but not to hide bad news.

Suggested Citation:

Kraft, Pepa and Xie, Yuan and Zhou, Ling, The Timing of Rating Changes (April 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2947230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2947230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
E Altman , H Rijken
How rating agencies achieve rating stability
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 28 , p. 2679 - 2714 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P Asquith , A Beatty , J Weber
Performance pricing in bank debt contracts
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 101 - 128 Posted: 2005
Crossref
S Baginski , J Hassell , D Pagach
Further Evidence on Nontrading-Period Information Release
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 207 - 221 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Mark E. Bagnoli , Michael B. Clement , Susan G. Watts
Around-the-Clock Media Coverage and the Timing of Earnings Announcements
McCombs Research Paper Series No. ACC-02-06 Pages: 36 Posted: 30 Jul 2004
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,149
RANK
397,014
1 Citations
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies