Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Exceptionalism: A UK Perspective

3(1) Journal of Tax Administration 95

King's College London Law School Research Paper No. 2017-31

15 Pages Posted: 24 May 2017 Last revised: 7 Aug 2017

Stephen Daly

King's College London - The Dickson Poon School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

In her article in this issue, Professor Kristin Hickman explores the relationship between the US Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’), and exceptionalism to general administrative law principles, dubbed “tax exceptionalism”. It builds upon work that Hickman has produced in response to the 2011 case of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research v. United States in which the Supreme Court is generally considered to have rejected the idea of tax exceptionalism. Indeed, Hickman’s article deals a decisive blow to the idea of tax exceptionalism by noting that the functions of the IRS are not dissimilar to those of other administrative agencies. Why then “should the IRS avoid general administrative law requirements when other agencies administering substantially similar programs must follow them?” But that does not mean that questions do not remain. Whilst it can be accepted easily that there should be no general exceptionalism, that tells us little about “which administrative practices are susceptible to legal challenge under general administrative law principles?” or whether provisions of the tax code might in fact “justify certain tax-specific departures from general administrative law requirements, doctrines, and norms.”

A similar dichotomy can be said to arise in the UK between on the one hand the idea that there are no special principles of public law which apply to tax law and on the other hand the fact that the application of general principles of law in respect of the tax administration, Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’), will differ from treatment given to other administrative agencies. This article will explore this dichotomy by first exploring briefly the history of the prospect of tax exceptionalism in the UK, and thereafter looking in depth at instances where HMRC may be said in practice to benefit from distinct treatment. The article will further assess situations where greater tolerance was given to HMRC actions than ought to have been afforded.

Keywords: Tax, Public Law, Tax Administration, Exceptionalism

Suggested Citation:

Daly, Stephen, Tax Exceptionalism: A UK Perspective (May 1, 2017). 3(1) Journal of Tax Administration 95, King's College London Law School Research Paper No. 2017-31, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2954978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
RANK
349,147
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies