Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Snapshot of the Australian Taxpayer

44 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2017

David Bond

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Anna Wright

University of Technology Sydney (UTS); Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 19, 2017

Abstract

Using the most recent Australian Taxation Office published data, and other sources of data, we provide detailed descriptive evidence on the income, deductions, and other items (including superannuation) of the individual taxpayer in Australia. We provide this detail across tax bracket, occupation, gender and location. In addition, we explore who is accessing negative gearing and by how much, thus contributing to the ongoing debate that surrounds this area of tax law. We show that individuals with a higher taxable income are more likely to access negative gearing, and we provide estimates of how the removal of this deduction would affect Federal tax revenue. We discuss other reported areas such as deductions for gifts and donations, as well as providing a discussion on the use and potential use of the Government provided pre-filled tax information for individuals. Overall, this study is of interest to academics, government and tax practitioners alike.

Keywords: income tax, tax deductions, gender differences, negative gearing

JEL Classification: H24

Suggested Citation:

Bond, David and Wright, Anna, A Snapshot of the Australian Taxpayer (April 19, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2955114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2955114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
ABS) 2016, 3101.0 -Australian Demographic Statistics
Australian Bureau of Statistics Posted: 2016-03
Australian Labor Party (ALP) 2016, Positive plan to help housing affordability, viewed Posted: 2016-11-30
Annual Report of the Australian Taxation Office Posted: 2014
Annual Report of the Australian Taxation Office Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,383
RANK
663,174
2 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies