Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Self-Regulation versus Statutory Regulation for Accounting Profession in Bangladesh: Some Relevant Issues

6 Pages Posted: 2 May 2017

Swapan Kunar Bala

University of Dhaka

Date Written: April 30, 2017

Abstract

In Bangladesh, a new statute has been enacted in September 2013 to statutorily regulate the accounting profession and hence, the profession’s self-regulation is about at its end. Under this Act, two professional accounting bodies will be regulated by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), which is yet to be established thereunder. This paper has discussed the present state of self-regulation of the accounting profession and how it works and also portrays the backdrop of ending the profession’s self-regulation and shifting it to a statutory body.

Keywords: Self-Regulation, Statutory Regulation, Financial Reporting Council

JEL Classification: H83, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bala, Swapan Kunar, Self-Regulation versus Statutory Regulation for Accounting Profession in Bangladesh: Some Relevant Issues (April 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2960902 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2960902
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
A Ahmed
Implementing Financial Reporting Act. The Financial Express Posted: 2015-10-04
D Anantharaman
Comparing self-regulation and statutory regulation: Evidence from the accounting profession. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 37 , p. 55 - 77 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C R Baker
Self-regulation in the public accounting profession: The structural response of the large public accounting firms to a changing environment
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 68 - 80 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Bagchi
The Professional Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,436
RANK
456,685
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies