Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Entrepreneurship Incentives for Resource-Constrained Firms

Handbook of Law and Entrepreneurship, Forthcoming

U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 669

20 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2017 Last revised: 9 Jan 2019

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: April 28, 2017

Abstract

Government should not always try to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship by offering incentives. But when it does, it should consider the fact that these incentives are often less attractive to resource-constrained firms, like startups, even though startups are promising sources of innovation. Traditional tax incentives, for instance, offer larger, earlier benefits to profitable, established firms.

Legal incentives can be made more accessible to startups and other resource-constrained firms. Policies can reduce or delay transaction costs. They can offer ex ante benefits through mechanisms like refundable tax credits or full loss offsets, so that startups and established firms benefit more equally. Policies can also allow firms to monetize legal benefits or finance investment in legal benefits by transferring them to investors.

Policy that seeks to incentivize entrepreneurship or innovation should account for the diversity of firms that might take advantage of legal incentives. It should not assume that firms are profitable. Rather, entrepreneurial incentives should accommodate the important case of resource-constrained, loss-making firms.

Keywords: entrepreneurship, innovation, legal incentives, tax incentives, losses

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K22, H40

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., Entrepreneurship Incentives for Resource-Constrained Firms (April 28, 2017). Handbook of Law and Entrepreneurship, Forthcoming, U of Texas Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 669, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2960323
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
See Joseph Bankman
The Structure of Silicon Valley Startups
41 UCLA L. Rev , volume 1737 , p. 1741 - 1788 Posted: 1994
See Brian , J Broughman , Jesse M Fried &amp; Darian , M Ibrahim
Delaware Law as Lingua Franca: Theory and Evidence
J. Law & Econ , volume 52 , p. 879 - 83 Posted: 2014
Victor Fleischer
The Rational Exuberance of Structuring Venture Capital Startups
UCLA School of Law, Law & Econ Research Paper No. 03-20 Pages: 51 Posted: 18 Aug 2003
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
. L Tax , Rev
explaining that investors generally cannot currently use losses due to rules applicable to different kinds of investors, including tax-exempt and foreign investors , volume 137 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,025
RANK
538,270
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies