Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Application of Audit Standards in ECA's Work

TILEC Discussion Paper No. 2017-0013

17 Pages Posted: 4 May 2017 Last revised: 13 Apr 2018

Alex Brenninkmeijer

Utrecht University

Raphael Debets

European Court of Auditors

Branislav Hock

University of Portsmouth; Tilburg Law and Economics Center (TILEC)

Gaston Moonen

European Court of Auditors

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 3, 2017

Abstract

External auditors, both in the private and in the public sector, are in the business of providing information to citizens and other stakeholders, to decide whether and in how far they can trust in what the audited bodies claim has been achieved. Audits of these auditors are governed by standards which concern the different aspects of professionalism of auditors and their audits. This raises the question how these standards fit into a regulatory framework under which an external auditor operates. So far, there is little published research on the role and structure of standards that govern audits of the European Court of Auditors (ECA). By drawing a structure of these standards and investigating them vis-à-vis the EU legal framework, we argue that the ECA, which is based on constitutional law and EU law, is mainly following the private sector standards and private sector standards are more or less copied, as far as financial audit is concerned. For issues more exclusively covered by public sector auditors, such as performance audits, public sector auditors have developed themselves standards and guidelines. The fact that there are no uniform general audit principles which would govern the work of the ECA raises a concern to what extent public external auditors pay attention to the difference between the public and private auditing. The paper aims to enhance our understanding of the institutional complementarity between transnational private regulation and public regimes.

Keywords: audit, standards, public sector auditors, informal law, accountability, the European Court of Auditor

JEL Classification: K10, H83, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Brenninkmeijer, Alex and Debets, Raphael and Hock, Branislav and Hock, Branislav and Moonen, Gaston, The Application of Audit Standards in ECA's Work (May 3, 2017). TILEC Discussion Paper No. 2017-0013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2962409 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2962409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Among many others see A. Dixit, Lawlessness and Economics: Alternative Modes of Governance Posted: 2004
Slaughter
Pauwelyn , Wessel &amp; Wouters
Crossref
Deirde &amp; Senden
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
132,602
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Law, Norms & Informal Order eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies