Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative Analysis of Computerized Accounting System and Manual Accounting System of Quoted Microfinance Banks (MFBs) in Nigeria

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 7, No. 2, p. 30–43, April 2017

14 Pages Posted: 8 May 2017 Last revised: 10 Jun 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Date Written: April 30, 2017

Abstract

This study assesses the comparative analysis of computerized accounting system and manual accounting system of quoted Microfinance Banks in Nigeria from 2006-2015. Three hypotheses were formulated in line with objectives of the study. Ex-post facto research design was adopted and the data for the study were obtained from fact books, annual reports and account of the quoted Microfinance banks under study. Paired sample T-test was used to test the Hypotheses, at 5% significant level with aid of SPSS version 22 statistical software. Findings showed that computerized accounting system has a positive effect on the reported profitability of banks more than manual system of accounting. Based on these findings, the study recommends among others that Microfinance banks should implement computerized accounting system than the manual accounting system because it has more positive effect on the profitability level of the banks.

Keywords: Computerized Accounting System, Manual Accounting System, Profitability

JEL Classification: G21, M40, O32

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Obi, Juliet, Comparative Analysis of Computerized Accounting System and Manual Accounting System of Quoted Microfinance Banks (MFBs) in Nigeria (April 30, 2017). International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 7, No. 2, p. 30–43, April 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2963494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
M F C Abiahu
Practical Approach to Accounting Information System Development
Awka: One Way Technologies Limited Posted: 2014
M Abubakar
Impact of information and communication technology on bank performance: A study of selected commercial banks in Nigeria
European Scientific Journal , volume 19 , issue 7 Posted: 2001
S O Ajibolade
Management accounting systems design and company performance in Nigerian manufacturing companies: A contingency theory perspective
British Journal of Arts and Social Sciences , volume 14 , issue 2 Posted: 2013
G A N Ama
Simplified financial accounting Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
904
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,486
RANK
60,173
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies