Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Partners and Partnerships in Nigeria

11 Pages Posted: 9 May 2017

Ololade Ademoroti

Date Written: April 29, 2017

Abstract

Partners, not partnerships, are taxed in Nigeria. But partnership arrangements affect the computation of the tax liability of partners. Taxation of partners is governed by the Personal Income Tax Act (PITA). Under PITA, partners are taxed as individuals with chargeable incomes derived from the partnership business and other sources. They are taxed according to their profit shares from partnership income. To determine partners’ tax liabilities, the partners first compute the partnership income and then distribute it to the partners according to the articles of partnership. The partners deduct allowances and reliefs. Afterward, the balance is taxed under PITA.

Understanding how partners are taxed in Nigeria requires first understanding the meaning and nature of partnerships as well as the financial relationship that exists between partners.

Keywords: Tax, Partnership, taxation of partners

Suggested Citation:

Ademoroti, Ololade, Taxation of Partners and Partnerships in Nigeria (April 29, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965515 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2965515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Sections 33 of PITA
Pwc
Nigeria Tax Data Card Posted: 2015-02-26
Pwc
Nigeria Tax Data Card 2015', 2. Add all non-allowable expenses and unreported taxable income
Deduct non-taxable income and allowable expenses not deducted
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,173
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,622
RANK
16,294
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies