Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Malulani and the Entrenchment of Mechanical Analysis of Related-Party Exchange Rules

Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 15, 2017

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 505

7 Pages Posted: 10 May 2017

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: May 9, 2017

Abstract

The Tax Court’s decision in Malulani is the latest in a series of cases that deny section 1031 nonrecognition to taxpayers who acquire replacement property from related parties. The exchanger in each of the cases transferred relinquished property an unrelated party and acquired replacement property from a related party in an exchange facilitated by a qualified intermediary. The Tax Court disposed this case using a mechanical mathematical analysis that compared the amount of tax actually paid by the related party to the amount of tax that the exchanger would have paid on a hypothetical taxable sale of its relinquished property. Concluding that the actual tax liability was less than the hypothetical tax liability, the Tax Court held that the transaction came within section 1031(f)(4), which prohibits nonrecognition for transactions designed to skirt the prohibited related-party exchange rules. The Tax Court disregarded the exchanger’s qualitative arguments that the transaction was not designed to avoid the rules. The Article argues that the case sends a message to taxpayers that courts and the IRS will apply mechanical mathematical analysis to determine whether section 1031(f) applies to deny section 1031 nonrecognition.

Keywords: Section 1031 exchange, related-party exchange, section 1031(f)(4)

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Malulani and the Entrenchment of Mechanical Analysis of Related-Party Exchange Rules (May 9, 2017). Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 15, 2017, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 505, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2965728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
766,148
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies