Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Financial Counselors in Long-Term Health Care Planning

Journal of Financial Counseling and Planning, Vol. 8, No. 1, 1997

Posted: 26 May 2017

Phillip Fuller

Jackson State University

Emily Norman Zietz

Middle Tennessee State University - Department of Economics and Finance

Date Written: Jan 1, 1997

Abstract

Adequate and affordable long-term health care (LTC) is an important concern today. Results from a survey of Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) with the Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) designation indicate that many believe they, as financial counselors, should assume some of the responsibility of informing clients of the LTC financing problem. Many respondents believe there is a widespread need for LTC insurance. As a group they are split as to whether government or private insurance is the best provider of LTC. However, they also believe some financial counselors are not emphasizing long-term care enough in clients’ financial plans.

Keywords: Long-Term Care, Accountants, Insurance, Planning, Health Care

JEL Classification: I13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fuller, Phillip and Norman Zietz, Emily, The Role of Financial Counselors in Long-Term Health Care Planning (Jan 1, 1997). Journal of Financial Counseling and Planning, Vol. 8, No. 1, 1997, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2973676
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies