Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Backflush Accounting on Financial Performance of Quoted Food and Beverage Firms in Nigeria

EPH - International Journal of Medical and Health Science, Vol. 2(3), p. 58-80, March 2017

23 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Chike Nweze

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Obi Chinyere

University of Nigeria Enugu Campus

Date Written: March 31, 2017

Abstract

The aim of this study is to determine the effect of backflush accounting on financial performance with particular reference to food and beverage firms. This study therefore, examines the effect of Backflush accounting on financial performance of food and beverage firms quoted on Nigeria Stock Exchange from 2010 to 31st December 2015. The research design employed in this study is the ex-post facto research. An ex-post facto research determines the cause-effect relationship among variables. Only secondary data was used in this study. Three hypotheses were formulated and tested in the course of this study. The Statistical tools used to test the hypotheses were coefficient of correlation and ordinary least square regression with the aid of STATA 13 statistical software. The study revealed that backflush accounting has a positive and statistically significant effect on ROA, ROE, and EPS of food and beverage firms quoted on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange at 5% level of significance. The researchers recommend among others that manufacturing firms should try to enforce the use of emerging new trends in management accounting practice even though it might not be cost effective in terms of staff training and cost of acquiring the technology, but the benefits outweighs the costs in the long run.

Keywords: Backflush Accounting, Financial Performance, Just-in-Time

JEL Classification: M40, M51, L22, L25

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Nweze, Chike and Obi, Juliet, Effect of Backflush Accounting on Financial Performance of Quoted Food and Beverage Firms in Nigeria (March 31, 2017). EPH - International Journal of Medical and Health Science, Vol. 2(3), p. 58-80, March 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2976445
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Abu Hashish , K
The role of published accounting information in predicting stock prices: an applied study on listed corporations on Amman stock Exchange Posted: 2003
A Akindele
The impact of international financial reporting standards on financial statements
Journal of business Economics , volume 2 , p. 98 - 104 Posted: 2012
N Asika
An empirical study of the use of cost accounting in Libyan agricultural firms. Thesis submitted to Othman
Research methodology in the behavioural science, Lagos, Longman Nigeria Fatah A.M Posted: 1991
A Graves , Ward Yvonne
A new cost management and accounting approach for lean enterprises. Paper presented at the Irish Academy of Management Annual conference , p. 3 - 43 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
549
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,952
RANK
115,646
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies