Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology and Online Beneficial Ownership Registries: Easier to Create Companies and Better at Preventing Financial Crimes

18 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2017

Andres Knobel

Tax Justice Network

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

The Panama Papers showed that financial crimes such as money laundering, corruption or tax evasion are alive and kicking. They flourish thanks to secrecy that allows criminals to hide behind opaque companies and trusts. For example, some countries allow bearer shares or they do not require all types of entities to register in a commercial register for them to legally exist. Or, even if all entities have to register, not all types of shareholders and members have to be disclosed. This means that entities may operate in the economy (e.g. opening a bank account) even if their full ownership information is not available in a commercial register.

In most countries, however, most legal entities (e.g. companies, but not trusts) do have to register in a commercial register. Nevertheless, they generally only have to disclose their legal owners (e.g. a nominee or an offshore company), but not their beneficial owners (BOs), meaning the individual ultimately owning or controlling the entity. The process to incorporate an entity is usually done in person and on paper at the commercial register.

Two current - but opposing - trends are changing this.

The negative trend is that commercial registries are moving online, making it easier and faster to create companies remotely via the internet, where very little legal ownership information is required, if any. This increases secrecy levels around companies and facilitates financial crimes even further.

The positive - but still insufficient - trend is that some countries, especially in Europe, are starting to “upgrade” their commercial registries to require legal entities (and some trusts) to also register their BOs. However, this positive trend is not good enough because it is still simple to provide false or inaccurate BO information when registering the entity.

Civil society organisations are therefore calling for a more effective combination of both trends: in other words, to upgrade all commercial registries so that they do require BO information of companies and trusts, and to have this information digital and in open data format to make it easier to search for it and check its accuracy and truthfulness.

In order to reduce the options for those who would want to provide false or inaccurate BO information, this paper proposes that the same technology already available and deployed in the private sector (e.g. cross-checking, big data and artificial intelligence used by credit card companies to prevent fraudulent online purchases) should also be used in these digital commercial registries.

In addition, access to this BO information must be public and in open data format, in order to create a deterrent effect. Even once this technology is applied, if access to digitalised BO information is restricted to authorities, it is less likely to ensure the accuracy of the information since neither civil society nor journalists can use their resources to check the information. We have to consider the possibility that authorities may also be corrupt and choose to protect businesspeople or politicians and no one would ever find out about it, unless another leak like the Panama Papers takes place.

It makes good sense that public BO online registers should apply the technology mentioned above. Restricted online registers, and those that require disclosure of legal ownership only, if any ownership at all, should be prevented.

Keywords: Beneficial Ownership, tax evasion, transparency, money laundering, open data, corruption, big data

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Knobel, Andres, Technology and Online Beneficial Ownership Registries: Easier to Create Companies and Better at Preventing Financial Crimes (June 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2978757 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2978757
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
-day trip to participate in a oneday conference in Switzerland, spending more than USD 100.000. In another case, the former Vice-President directly bought luxury furniture without a public tender
What if this is only 0.1% of all UK companies? A percentage is not relevant here. We know that most existing legal entities in the world are legitimate and legal. But those aren't the problem. 10 companies would enough to be involved in major corruption or money laundering activities for millions of dollars. The fact that there are 10 of them wouldn't make it any easier to find them either
Load more
2 Citations
Andres Knobel
Beneficial Ownership Verification: Ensuring the Truthfulness and Accuracy of Registered Ownership Information
69 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2019 · Downloads: 639
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rachel Etter-Phoya , Eva Danzi , Riva Jalipa
Beneficial Ownership Transparency in Africa: The State of Play in 2020
Tax Justice Network, June 2020 · 49 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 180
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
250
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,994
RANK
279,629
2 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies