Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
50 Years of Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH): Benefits and Challenges to Accounting Research and Practice

6 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2017

Adzor Ibiamke

Nigerian Defence Academy

Date Written: December 1, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to unravel the benefits and challenges that EMH has to accounting research and practice in the past fifty (50) years of its existence and its probable future influence. The paper is basically a review of literature pertaining to the implications of EMH basically to accounting profession. The review have identified areas benefited by accounting profession with the emergence of EMH to include the standard setting arena, clients advising, capital market research in accounting, level of disclosure in financial reports and for legal evidence to establish claims for damages. On the other hand the review found that the emergence of EMH has change the accounting orientation to forward looking information which is less reliable and fraud tempting.

Keywords: Efficient Market Hypothesis, Accounting, Research, Practice

JEL Classification: G14, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ibiamke, Adzor, 50 Years of Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH): Benefits and Challenges to Accounting Research and Practice (December 1, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2980791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2980791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
W H Beaver
What should be the FASB objectives
Journal of Accountancy , p. 49 - 56 Posted: 1973-08
S J Brown
The efficient markets hypothesis: The demise of the demon of chance? Accounting and Finance , volume 51 , p. 79 - 95 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D Deitrick , T H Walter
EMH, CMR and the accounting profession
Journal of Accountancy , p. 82 - 94 Posted: 2001-02
E F Fama
The behavior of stock market prices
Journal of Business , p. 34 - 105 Posted: 1965-01
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,729
RANK
40,034
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies