Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Improve Financial Reporting, We Need to Disclose More Relevant Information

International Journal of the Academic Business World, 11(2), 93-100.

8 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2017 Last revised: 29 Nov 2023

Jeffrey A. Mankin

Finally Learn; Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Jeffrey Jay Jewell

Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Julio Rivas

Lipscomb University - Department of Accounting, Finance & Economics

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The goal of financial reporting is to provide useful information for decision makers. Effective financial reporting is essential for efficient financial markets and provides transparency and accountability. Globally, there are two primary financial reporting systems. The United States, uses generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). Outside the United States, the rest of the world uses international financial reporting standards (IFRS). Both systems require both financial and non-financial disclosures for companies that issue financial statements.

One required disclosure for both GAAP and IFRS is for companies to calculate earnings per share (EPS). This is an important financial ratio, but it is not the only important financial ratio. However, it is currently the only financial ratio that is required in company annual reports both in GAAP and in IFRS. In this paper, we recommend additional financial disclosures including a recommended set of financial ratios. These additional disclosures would be inexpensive but would provide relevant additional information to investors and thus would improve the quality of financial reporting.

Keywords: GAAP, IFRS, financial reporting, financial ratios, required disclosures

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mankin, Jeffrey A. and Jewell, Jeffrey Jay and Rivas, Julio, To Improve Financial Reporting, We Need to Disclose More Relevant Information (2017). International Journal of the Academic Business World, 11(2), 93-100., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2982526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2982526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
A B Abdullah , Ku Nor Izah , I Ku
Disclosure of Voluntary Accounting Ratios by Malaysian Listed QompAme.s.JoumalofFinancial Reporting &Account-ing
Journal of Financial Reporting & Accounting) , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2008
APB Opin ion No. 15 Earnings Per Share Posted: 1969
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bank ruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
W H Beaver
Financial Ratios As Prediaors of Failure. of Accounting Research , volume 4 , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,085
RANK
204,172
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies