Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Collection in Tanzania: Challenges and Prospect

Posted: 14 Jun 2017 Last revised: 18 Jan 2021

Ezekia Brown Mwambande

Independent

Date Written: June 13, 2017

Abstract

Over time, especially since the rise of democracies, tax revenue has been more and more used in a way beneficial for society as a whole and has eventually resulted in the welfare systems of the industrialized world known today (Bose, et al., 2012). As a consequence of this development toward a closer connection between the taxes paid and the benefits received (and possibly also of a more civilized way of living), reactions to taxes are nowadays less violent. Nevertheless, it is still without doubts that taxes in many important respects affect the behavior of human being (po.cit.). Ndunguru (2005) argues that unavailability of tax handles might limit tax collection at lower level of income and such limitation should become less as the economy develops. Trade taxes have historically been major sources of government revenue for developing economies mainly because they easier to collect than domestic income taxes or consumption taxes, given the rudimentary nature of tax administration and limited tax handles (ibid.). Likewise, Linn and Wetzel (1990) argue that the administrative ease with which trade taxes can be collected makes them attractive sources of government revenue when administrative capabilities are scarce. Consequently, the importance of trade taxes as a source of revenue is arguably inversely related to economic development. Because the tax system allows many profitable corporations and individuals to avoid paying a fair share of tax as well as to allow numerous and generous exemptions to both direct and indirect taxes, Taxation forms an important part of the fiscal policy of any government. This is because through taxation the government can raise its revenue required for its recurrent and development expenditure (Maganga, 2005). Therefore, this paper aimed at examining challenges and efficiency of tax system in Tanzania.

Suggested Citation:

Mwambande, Ezekia Brown, Tax Collection in Tanzania: Challenges and Prospect (June 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2985323
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,395
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies