Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Knowledge in the Internal Audit

Proceedings of Harvard Square Symposium: The Future of Knowledge, Volume 1, p. 55–64, April 2016

13 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2017

Emilia Vasile

Universitatea Athenaeum

Daniela Mitran

Universitatea Athenaeum

Date Written: April 29, 2016

Abstract

In the last years the focus of internal audit has shifted away from business toward financial controls. In the future internal audit departments need to align their contributions to the organization’s strategic objectives. The purpose of the internal audit which is organised within the entities is to provide counselling to the general management and to assess the functionality of the internal control system, activities by which it brings an additional value to the entity which is audited. The optimal functioning of the entities on the basis of an integrated internal control framework imposes the existence of a proper control environment which should promote the ethical values, be transparent, accept good practice standards and set responsibilities on the same line with the strategies and policies approved by the superior level management.

Keywords: internal audit, high quality decision, corporate governance, transparancey

JEL Classification: M4, M2, M1

Suggested Citation:

Vasile, Emilia and Mitran, Daniela, The Future of Knowledge in the Internal Audit (April 29, 2016). Proceedings of Harvard Square Symposium: The Future of Knowledge, Volume 1, p. 55–64, April 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2986558 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2986558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,415
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies