Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS

Saidi, F. (2013) “Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS”, International Research Journal of Applied Finance. Vol. IV, pp. 124-142.

23 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2017

Fethi Saidi

Qatar University, College of Business and Economics

Date Written: January 1, 2013

Abstract

Developing and emerging countries are progressively embracing globalization and implementing International Financial Reporting Standards. This study seeks to analyze how Algeria initiated the transformational processes of its local accounting practice to meet the International Financial Reporting Standards. The study is primarily qualitative in nature and based on data gathered primarily from archival sources. The main focus of the present study is threefold in nature. Firstly, is to highlight the unique context in which Algeria is converging to IFRS, characterized mainly by the colonial and centrally planned economy background. Secondly, after the analysis of the flaws of the old accounting system, the main features and benefits of the new IFRS compliant financial accounting system (hereinafter, NFAS) are outlined. Thirdly, the issues and challenges related to the implementation of IFRS in an emerging country such as Algeria are investigated and explained in-depth. This study suggests first that a more careful approach should be adopted when carrying out a transformation of the accounting system of a country that used to live under a centrally planned economy for more than five decades. Secondly, it stresses on the urgent need to develop an appropriate regulatory environment to enforce the application of the new financial accounting system and to bring all the concerned stakeholders to embrace the requirements of the new accounting era. Thirdly, all the challenges facing the adequate implementation of NFAS must be seriously recognized and resolved in order to benefit fully from this historical shift in the Algerian accounting practice.

Keywords: PCN, IFRS, NSCF, emerging country, Algeria, Plan Comptable National

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Saidi, Fethi, Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS (January 1, 2013). Saidi, F. (2013) “Accounting Developments in Algeria: The Road to IFRS”, International Research Journal of Applied Finance. Vol. IV, pp. 124-142., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2987409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A Belkaoui
International Accounting: Issues and Solutions Querum Books Posted: 1985
D Cairns
Aid for the developing world
Accountancy , volume 105 , p. 82 - 85 Posted: 1159
P Chand
Impetus to the success of harmonization: the case of South Pacific Island nations
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 16 , p. 209 - 226 Posted: 2005
Crossref
P Chand , M White
A Critique of the Influence of Globalization and Convergence of Accounting Standards in Fiji
Critical perspectives on Accounting , volume 18 , p. 605 - 622 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
299
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,635
RANK
232,542
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies