Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting Beyond Budgeting: A Tool for Management, Surprise Avoidance, Trust Creation and Organizational Learning

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 1, p. 24-44, November 2016

21 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2017

Josep M. Rosanas

University of Navarra - IESE Business School

Date Written: October 29, 2016

Abstract

While for quite a long time the budget was considered one of the crucial management tools, it has always been subject to criticisms, which have become stronger in the last couple of decades, under the commercial name of “Beyond Budgeting”. In this article, we review the history and foundations of budgeting, to show how typically, the criticisms to budgeting have to be addressed to a bad management style, and not to the technique itself. Then, I use an example to show how budgets can be used to the firm’s advantage in many fields, but mainly in being able to avoid unpleasant surprises, create trust between the different hierarchical levels of the firm, and enhance learning in the positive sense. This allows the firm to avoid vicious circles that are often found in the practice of budgeting because of bad management, not because of the budgets themselves.

Keywords: Budgeting, Management, Trust, Command and Control, Management Control Process

Suggested Citation:

Rosanas, Josep M., Budgeting Beyond Budgeting: A Tool for Management, Surprise Avoidance, Trust Creation and Organizational Learning (October 29, 2016). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 1, p. 24-44, November 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2987996
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
R N Anthony
Planning and Control Systems: A framework for Analysis Posted: 1965
R Anthony , J Dearden , R Vancil
Management Control Systems: Text, Cases and Readings Posted: 1972
E Barrett , L Fraser
Conflicting Roles in Budgeting for Operations
Harvard Business Review , volume 55 , issue 4 Posted: 1977-07
W Bruns , J Waterhouse
Budgetary Control and Organization Structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 203 Posted: 1975
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Abdulzahra Alrawazqee , Tamara Tsatkhlanova
Improve Performance or Corruption Motivation in Beyond Budget Implementation, Survey in Public Sector Organizations
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.12, No.6, 2021 · 9 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 288
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
RANK
282,998
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Decision Making, Organizational Behavior & Performance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies