Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Social Audits to Detect and Eliminate Human Trafficking in Corporate Supply Chains

Internal Auditing, Vol. 32(1), p. 31-38, 2017

19 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2017

Hannah Russell

Texas A&M University (TAMU), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Department of Agricultural Economics, Students

Katherine Taken Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-College of Business

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

By providing social audits that examine corporate supply chains; internal auditors, management accountants, and external auditors can assist corporations in their efforts to stop human trafficking. This paper describes how social audits can be used in identifying and eliminating the presence of human trafficking in corporate supply chains. Human trafficking is one of the world’s top three global crime industries, the other two being the unlawful drugs trade and illegal arms dealing. Human trafficking is especially detrimental to females, who are the great majority of trafficking victims. Trafficking occurs in developing countries but also in developed countries such as the United States. A multinational corporation can help end human trafficking by ensuring that it does not occur among suppliers in its business supply chain.

Keywords: Supply Chain, Social Auditing, Human Trafficking, Corporate Social Responsibility

JEL Classification: F00, M38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Russell, Hannah and Smith, Katherine Taken and Smith, Murphy, Using Social Audits to Detect and Eliminate Human Trafficking in Corporate Supply Chains (2017). Internal Auditing, Vol. 32(1), p. 31-38, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2989377
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Jenifer M Axtell , L Murphy Smith , Wayne Tervo
The Advent of Accounting: A Historical Analysis. International Conference of the Allied Academies Posted: 2015-10-14
Crossref
K T Smith , J Alexander
Posted: 2013
Crossref
Companies Use on Their Websites? Business and Professional Communication Quarterly (formerly Business Communication Quarterly) , volume 76 , p. 155 - 171
Crossref
S Linnhoff , H M Martin , K T Smith , L M Smith
A Descriptive Analysis of Ethics Codes, CSR, and Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking
International Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 5 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 156 - 177 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Murphy Smith , Kenneth Sutrick , Solomon Antony
Analysis of the Relationship of Happiness to Economic Achievement and Other Factors in US States
International Journal of Work Organisation and Emotion, 10(1), 50-65, 2019 · 30 Pages · Posted: 29 May 2020 · Downloads: 104
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stefan Linnhoff , Katherine Taken Smith , Murphy Smith
An Examination of Longitudinal Study Typologies for Business Research
International Journal of Business and Globalisation, 24(2), 212-239 (2018) · 44 Pages · Posted: 5 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 194
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,070
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,977
RANK
47,577
2 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies