Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Code as a Barrier to Entrepreneurship

12 Pages Posted: 27 Jun 2017

David Burton

The Heritage Foundation

Date Written: February 15, 2017

Abstract

This testimony analyzes the importance of entrepreneurship, evidence that entrepreneurship is in decline, how the tax system is an impediments to entrepreneurship, sources of complexity in the tax code, incremental reforms to improve the current tax system and the likely impact of major tax reform.

Keywords: tax, tax reform, tax complexity, entrepreneurship, small business

Suggested Citation:

Burton, David, The Tax Code as a Barrier to Entrepreneurship (February 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2992805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2992805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
David R See , Burton
pdf ; for a list of regulatory impediments to entrepreneurship in the United States and proposed reforms to address them
Testimony before The Committee on Small Business, United States House of Representatives Posted: 2015-03-04
Compliance costs include legal, accounting and administrative costs but not lost economic output (i.e. the deadweight loss or excess burden of the tax system)
A Scott , Jason J Hodge , Jacob M Fichtner , Feldman
The Compliance Costs of IRS Regulations
Mercatus Center , volume 512 Posted: 2013-05-20
David Burton
Constructive Small Business Expensing Bill Introduced Posted: 2014-04-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
658,539
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies