Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposed Section 751(b) Regulations: An ‘Exchange’ for the Better?

123 J. TAX'N 52 (2015)

35 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2017

Douglas L. Longhofer

University of Central Missouri

Bryan A Rimmke

Ernst & Young LLP - Washington, D.C. Office

Date Written: May 29, 2015

Abstract

In 2014, Treasury and the IRS issued proposed regulations concerning so-called disproportionate distributions under section 751(b). The proposed regulations adopt many of the principles first announced in Notice 2006-14 — responses to which were “predominantly favorable” according to the Preamble of the proposed regulations. This article provides a technical overview of the proposed regulations and concludes by considering whether an exchange of the current regulations for the proposed regulations achieves Treasury and the Service’s goal of writing regulations that advance the purpose of the statute while enhancing simplicity for taxpayers.

Keywords: Section 751(b), Partnership Distributions, Proposed Regulations

Suggested Citation:

Longhofer, Douglas L. and Rimmke, Bryan A, Proposed Section 751(b) Regulations: An ‘Exchange’ for the Better? (May 29, 2015). 123 J. TAX'N 52 (2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2994912
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Rachael's amount realized on the sale is $60. If Section 751(a) did not apply to the sale
However
Under the proposed regulations, the amount of money received by a partner in exchange for all or part of her partnership interest must take into the partner's share of income or gain from Section 751 property. If the AR partnership had sold all of its Section 751 property in a taxable transaction immediately prior to the partnership interest sale, Rachael would have been allocated $100 of ordinary income under Section 704(c) principles. Accordingly, under the proposed regulations, Rachael must recognize $100 of ordinary income on the sale of her partnership interest. Finally, the difference between the amount of capital gain that Rachael would recognize in the absence of Section 751 ($60) and the amount of ordinary income recognized under the proposed regulations ($100) is Rachael's capital loss on the sale of her partnership interest. Therefore, Rachael recognizes ordinary income of $100 and a capital loss of the partner that originally contributed such property
Prop. Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 751 - 752
Crossref
Treas. Reg. § § , volume 1 , issue 3
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,590
RANK
518,107
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies