Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Front Door Opens Wide for the Backdoor Roth IRA

Tax Notes, Vol. 155, No. 9, 2017

8 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2017 Last revised: 2 Dec 2019

Philip Manns

Liberty University - School of Law

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: May 29, 2017

Abstract

Invoking allusions to Caligula and Roman tax law, the Sixth Circuit, in Summa Holdings, reversed the Tax Court and held that the Commissioner could not use the substance-over-form doctrine to prevent taxpayers from combining the tax savings effects of a domestic international sales corporation with a Roth IRA. In this article, we argue that the Summa Holdings rationale supports and allows the backdoor Roth IRA — that is, making a nondeductible, traditional IRA contribution and then converting it into a Roth IRA (ostensibly to avoid the income limits on direct contributions to Roth IRAs).

Keywords: tax, IRA, Roth, Roth IRA, tax planning, retirement planning, substance over form, Tax Court

JEL Classification: K1, K00, K19, K2, K34

Suggested Citation:

Manns, F. Philip and Todd, Timothy M., The Front Door Opens Wide for the Backdoor Roth IRA (May 29, 2017). Tax Notes, Vol. 155, No. 9, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2995644
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
900
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,030
RANK
60,584
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies