Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategies for Financing Long-Term Care

Fuller, Phillip, and Roger Calcote. "Strategies for Financing Long-term Care." National Public Accountant (June 1996): 22-25.

Posted: 5 Jul 2017

Phillip Fuller

Jackson State University

Date Written: 1996

Abstract

Anyone can say, "I am a personal financial planner." In this environment, the accounting profession is positioned to become the leading provider of personal financial planning services. In many instances, accountants are the only professionals clients know and trust with regard to personal financial planning. Accountants, unlike some financial specialists, recommend what clients need - not what they can sell to them.

People ask accountants to design financial plans for a variety of reasons:

* to achieve financial independence,

* for retirement,

* to protect their estates for the benefit of heirs, and

* to avoid being a physical burden to relatives and friends.

For the well-being of clients, accountants should consider the need for long-term health care (LTC) in clients' financial plans. Of the 2.2 million people who turned 65 in 1990, 43% will spend some time in a nursing home. Ninety percent of those who stay two years or more will bankrupt themselves within the first two years (Greer 1991).

Although many people consider accountants personal financial planning experts, most accountants need to learn more about insurance and investments. These two areas are not a part of their traditional training in accounting. Clients look to accountants to explain the alternatives before going to other professionals to implement financial plans.

This article discusses alternatives for financing LTC. It reviews governmental programs that are associated with financing health care. LTC insurance and life insurance are discussed as ways to finance LTC. In addition, two strategies for utilizing home equity to finance care are presented.

Keywords: Health care, Long term care, Medicare

JEL Classification: I13, I18, M41

Suggested Citation:

Fuller, Phillip, Strategies for Financing Long-Term Care (1996). Fuller, Phillip, and Roger Calcote. "Strategies for Financing Long-term Care." National Public Accountant (June 1996): 22-25., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996289
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,117
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies