Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Practices and International Accounting Standard (IAS)/Philippine Accounting Standard (PAS) 41 Compliance of Cattle Farms: Evidence from the Philippines

Journal of Global Business and Trade, Vol.13, No.1, pp. 55-77

23 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2017 Last revised: 8 Jul 2017

Hanna D. Miranda-Quibot

University of the Philippines, Los Baños

Loida E. Mojica

University of the Philippines, Los Baños

Jeanette Angeline B. Madamba

University of the Philippines, Los Baños

Normito Zapata

University of the Philippines, Los Baños

Date Written: May 2, 2017

Abstract

IAS/PAS 41, a set of accounting standards which regulates the accounting treatment of agricultural activities, provides the accounting benchmark relative to agricultural activity and includes the transformation of biological assets to agricultural produce. In the Philippines, it was implemented in 2005, but many companies were not yet compliant then with the required accounting treatment. Given that there is a dearth of studies about IAS/PAS 41 compliance, this study was conducted to assess the accounting practices of cattle farms based on the provisions of IAS/PAS 41, including their IAS/PAS 41 compliance relative to past international studies, determine the factors that influence adoption of such accounting practices and capture cattle farmer perceptions on IAS/PAS 41. A descriptive research design was employed involving the conduct of a survey of 81 cattle farms, frequency analysis and an evaluation of compliance vis-à-vis an IAS 41 checklist. Study findings show diversity in the accounting practices of cattle farms depending on the size of operation, business organization and nature of business. Backyard farmers did not maintain records and, therefore, were not IAS/PAS 41 compliant but used the fair market value approach utilized by commercial farms in the valuation of cattle inventories.

Keywords: accounting practices, biological assets, cattle farms, fair market value, valuation

JEL Classification: L26, M41

Suggested Citation:

Miranda-Quibot, Hanna D. and Mojica, Loida E. and Madamba, Jeanette Angeline B. and Zapata, Normito, Accounting Practices and International Accounting Standard (IAS)/Philippine Accounting Standard (PAS) 41 Compliance of Cattle Farms: Evidence from the Philippines (May 2, 2017). Journal of Global Business and Trade, Vol.13, No.1, pp. 55-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2996499
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J M Argiles , E F Slof
New opportunities for farm accounting Posted: 2010-11-10
Crossref
M I T Bhakir
Applying IAS 41 in Malaysia, accountants today Posted: 2010-03
H Bohusova , P Svoboda , D Nerudova
Biological assets reporting: Is the increase in value caused by the biological transformation revenue?
Agricultural Economics (Zemedelska Ekonomika) , volume 58 , issue 11 , p. 520 - 532 Posted: 2012
H Bohusova , P Valouch , P Svoboda
IFRS for SMEs: What will the implementation of IFRS for SME bring for timber company? (MENDELU Working Papers in Business and Economics27/2012). Brno-sever-Černá Pole Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,912
RANK
44,921
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies