Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS Impact on Profitability and Liquidity Parameters for the Indian IT Sector - Case Study Approach

International Conference on " Emerging Trends in Applied Finance and Business Economics"

11 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2017

Ameya Patil

MIT World Peace University

Pranav Kenjale

University of Pune, Students

Akshay Kanade

University of Colorado Denver; Project Management Institute; University of Pune, Students

Date Written: April 25, 2017

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are the new global accounting standards and have made its way into India. As the country accepts these standards, investors are curious whether change of accounting standards from Indian GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) to IFRS will result in significant changes in financial statements.

Our paper makes an attempt to study the impact of this transition for the Indian Information Technology (IT) sector using case study approach. The companies selected for this study include Infosys Ltd., Wipro Ltd., and Sify Technologies. Their financial statements with IFRS and Indian GAAP have been compared in depth. As the changes in financial statements manifest themselves better through ratios, we shall be studying the differences in profitability ratios such as the Net Profit ratio, Gross Profit ratio and Return on Investment (RoI) followed by some liquidity ratios like the Current ratio and Acid Test ratio. T-test analysis has been used to further see if there is a significant difference in these profitability and liquidity parameters.

Keywords: IFRS, Indian GAAP, Ratio Analysis, Return on Investment (ROI), Profitability, Liquidity

JEL Classification: G00, G02, G10, G14, G15, G18, G19, G21, G29

Suggested Citation:

Patil, Ameya and Kenjale, Pranav and Kanade, Akshay, IFRS Impact on Profitability and Liquidity Parameters for the Indian IT Sector - Case Study Approach (April 25, 2017). International Conference on " Emerging Trends in Applied Finance and Business Economics", Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998069
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
425
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,966
RANK
157,299
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies