Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Shift of Accounting Models and Accounting Quality: The Case of Norwegian GAAP

Corporate Ownership & Control, 14(4-1), 289-300. doi:10.22495/cocv14i4c1art11

12 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2017

Tonny Stenheim

Buskerud University College

Dag Øivind Madsen

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business

Date Written: June 12, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the change in accounting quality when firms shift from a revenue-oriented historical cost accounting regime as Norwegian GAAP (NGAAP) to a balance-oriented fair value accounting regime as International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Previous studies have demonstrated mixed effects on the accounting quality upon IFRS adoption. One possible reason is that the investigated domestic GAAP to a large extent has been adjusted to IFRS prior to IFRS adoption. This is not the case in NGAAP where IFRS adoption led to significant changes in the recognition and measurement rules. To investigate the change in accounting quality, the paper makes use of a panel design with 640 firm-year observations from 2001 up to the financial crisis year 2008, including four years of pre-IFRS NGAAP observations and four years of IFRS-observations. The paper employs four commonly used approaches to investigate accounting quality: test of value relevance of net earnings and book values, accrual quality of net earnings, incidence of small positive net earnings and test of timely loss recognition. The paper demonstrates that the adoption of IFRS increases the relevance accounting information has for valuation purposes. IFRS requires recognition of intangible assets and off-balance sheet liabilities not allowed under NGAAP. Moreover, IFRS allows the use of fair value to a larger extent than NGAAP. The paper also demonstrates that NGAAP leads to timelier recognition of losses than IFRS. This supports the notion that historical cost accounting, which is the basic accounting principle under NGAAP, provides more conservative accounting numbers. Overall, this suggests that IFRS provides information more useful for valuation purposes, but to a lesser extent stewardship purposes which generally favours conservatism. NGAAP on the other hand, provides information less relevant for valuation purposes, but more relevant for stewardship purposes.

Keywords: Accounting Quality, Value Relevance, Financial Accounting, IFRS

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Stenheim, Tonny and Madsen, Dag Øivind, The Shift of Accounting Models and Accounting Quality: The Case of Norwegian GAAP (June 12, 2017). Corporate Ownership & Control, 14(4-1), 289-300. doi:10.22495/cocv14i4c1art11, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998565
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of the value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M E Barth , G Clinch
Scale effects in capital markets-based accounting research
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 36 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M E Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Accounting quality: International accounting standards and US GAAP Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,016
RANK
467,335
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies