Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Disasters to Teach Ethics in Accounting and Business

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2015

44 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2017

Miriam Gerstein

Brooklyn College

Hershey H. Friedman

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business; CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: July 6, 2017

Abstract

This paper describes a method of teaching accounting ethics that can easily be incorporated into any course. This approach focuses on disasters that resulted from a disregard of ethics. This paper posits that examining the consequences of unethical behavior and providing real-life examples can make a course in business ethics more valuable and interesting to students. This paper examines several kinds of disasters that resulted from disparate causes such as defective products, nuclear accidents, and accounting fraud. The consequences of these disasters range from the deaths of innocent people to the loss of pensions to the loss of one’s home. What do all these cases have in common? The answer is greed. When executives are more concerned about bonuses, profits, compensation, and/or growth they are more likely to cause harm to others.

Keywords: business ethics, disasters, sinking of the Titanic, Bhopal, Rana Plaza, credit default swaps, sustainable business, triple bottom line

JEL Classification: D18, E43, G33, M41, G21

Suggested Citation:

Gerstein, Miriam and Friedman, Hershey H., Using Disasters to Teach Ethics in Accounting and Business (July 6, 2017). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
D Altmyer , S Yang , K Schallenkamp , R Debeaumont
Student ethical awareness and business program matriculation: Evidence from the U
S. Business Education and Administration , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 49 Posted: 2011
R Balmforth
Factbox: Key facts on Chernobyl nuclear accident
Reuters.com Posted: 2011-03-15
S Barter
How the World Trade Center fell. BBC News Posted: 2001-09-13
Crossref
M H Bazerman , A E Tenbrusel
Ethical breakdowns
Harvard Business Review , p. 58 - 65 Posted: 2011-04
Load more
1 Citations
Hershey H. Friedman , Miriam Gerstein , Sholom Schochet , Sarah Hertz
Is Short-Term Thinking Destroying Capitalism? Vignettes for Teaching Business Ethics
Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 21(4): 515-554 (2020) · 40 Pages · Posted: 3 Dec 2020 · Downloads: 167
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
RANK
401,129
1 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Legal Education eJournal

Follow

Cognition & Culture: Culture, Communication, Design, Ethics, Morality, Religion, Rhetoric, & Semiotics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies