Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Engagement Partners Attributes and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Borsa İstanbul

Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Nov 2017

Murat Ocak

Trakya University, Uzunköprü School of Applied Sciences, Department of Management Information Systems

Gökberk Can

American University of the Middle East (AUM)

Date Written: April 25, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the effects of engagement partners’ attributes on earnings quality using 725 firm*year observations between 2008 and 2013 from Borsa İstanbul manufacturing industry firms. We use two indicators of earnings quality to test the effects of gender, educational background, experience, and certification from among engagement partners’ attributes. Our findings emphasize that engagement partners’ attributes do not have any impact on real activities-based earnings management but have an impact on accruals-based earnings management. Female engagement partners have a negative effect on the absolute value of discretionary accruals, especially in negative discretionary accruals. On the other hand, we find that engagement partners with longer experience have negative impact on the absolute and negative discretionary accruals.

Keywords: Earnings Quality, Engagement Partner, Gender, Experience, Accruals, Real Activities

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ocak, Murat and Can, Gökberk, Engagement Partners Attributes and Earnings Quality: Evidence from Borsa İstanbul (April 25, 2017). Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2998780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2998780
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies