Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Sensitivity and the Perception of Accounting Students: Is the Love of Money and Greed the Root of Unethical Attitudes?

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 11-18

8 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Jul 2017

Aisa Agustini

University of Jember - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: December 3, 2016

Abstract

Objective - This research aims to investigate the influence of the love of money and greed on the individual's ethical sensitivity.

Methodology/Technique - The samples used are 50 students of accounting from Jember University. Path analysis is used to test the hypotheses.

Findings - The results show that there is an influence of the Love of Money on Greed. Theoretically, when one has fulfilled one's primary needs, one is able to survive. But human beings are not easily satisfied thus, they would always want to gain more. A person who loves money would be glad when he/she owns money since the person thinks that money can give him/her the comforts of life and the money that he/she has, can be used in whatever way he/she prefers.

Novelty - Unlike previous studies, this study looks at the topic from the Islamic perspective.

Keywords: Accounting; Love of Money; Greed; Ethical Sensitivity; Indonesia

JEL Classification: I21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Agustini, Aisa, Ethical Sensitivity and the Perception of Accounting Students: Is the Love of Money and Greed the Root of Unethical Attitudes? (December 3, 2016). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 11-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Al Qur , &apos; , Al Hadis Chan , Y S Samuel , Philomena Leung
The effect of accounting student's ethical reasoning and personel factors on their ethical sensitivity
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 436 - 457 Posted: 2006
C D Charismawati , E N A Yuyetta
Analisis Hubungan antara Love of Money dengan Persepsi Etika Mahasiswa Akuntansi (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2011
Y J Chen , T L P Tang
Attitude toward and propensity to engage in unethical behavior: Measurement invariance across major among university students
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 69 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 93 Posted: 2006
Crossref
P M Clikeman , S L Henning
The socialization of undergraduate accounting students
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,045
RANK
534,865
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies