Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Aspects of Doing Business with the People's Republic of China

Timothy A. Gelatt & Richard D. Pomp, Tax Aspects of Doing Business with the People's Republic of China, 22 Colum. J. Transnat'l L. 421 (1984)

84 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Sep 2021

Timothy Gelatt

affiliation not provided to SSRN (deceased)

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Date Written: 1984

Abstract

Before 1979, the People’s Republic of China did not have a logical system of taxing foreign business. That summer, a few selected American tax professors met with Chinese tax officials to explain the complexities of source rules, foreign tax credits, and tax treaties. That gave Chinese officials a detailed knowledge of intricate tax issues, and they have used this knowledge to develop China’s new tax system. Since 1979, China’s tax structure has conformed to generally accepted international structures with the adoption of three important taxes affecting foreign business activity. At first, China’s statutes and regulations did not clearly explain the tax consequences of common business transactions as a result of differences in statutory interpretation by Western-trained lawyers. Recently, Chinese guidance has become more lucid, which makes tax planning more feasible. Going forward, foreign businesses should avoid zeroing out their Chinese income tax (which should be creditable against their home country income tax) in order to build goodwill by contributing to the Chinese government. The goodwill gained from paying taxes to China will provide potential future business opportunities in the country.

This article presents a general overview of the Chinese tax structure for foreign businesses. Part II discusses the individual income tax, the industrial and commercial tax, the joint venture income tax, and the foreign enterprise income tax. This section also briefly examines property taxes and taxes on vehicles and shipping income. Part III analyzes the effect of these taxes on business in China.

This section reviews the practices of Chinese tax authorities regarding:

(1) representative offices and business agents,

(2) consignment sales and service centers,

(3) compensation trade,

(4) cooperative ventures,

(5) contracted projects, and

(6) equity joint ventures.

The article concludes by explaining that while the major aspects of China’s foreign business tax structure are in place, tax officials will likely deviate from the mainstream to help China emerge as an intellectual world leader on tax issues.

Keywords: tax, law, tax law, taxation, China, foreign business, credits, treaties, tax reform, individual income tax, industrial and commercial tax, joint venture income tax, property tax

JEL Classification: k34, h20, h25, h70

Suggested Citation:

Gelatt, Timothy and Pomp, Richard, Tax Aspects of Doing Business with the People's Republic of China (1984). Timothy A. Gelatt & Richard D. Pomp, Tax Aspects of Doing Business with the People's Republic of China, 22 Colum. J. Transnat'l L. 421 (1984), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
2 4 by local real estate appraisal committees, which include members of the local peo-274. Provisional Urban Real Estate Tax Act (promulgated by the Government Administration Council of the Central People's Government
PURETA, land and buildings are assigned "standard values" or "standard rental values Posted: 1951-08-08
One standard reference work defines a city (the Chinese term used in the PURETA is chengshi) as "having a concentrated population, relatively developed industry and commerce, forming the political, economic, and cultural center of the surrounding region, the majority of whose residents are not involved in agriculture
LANGUAGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, DICTIONARY OF CONTEMPORARY CHINESE , volume 137 Posted: 1983
PURETA, supra note 274, art. 2, note 1. The provincial governments could decide whether or not to levy the tax within a given city; their discretion did not extend to exempting particular parcels within a city
See supra notes 89-93 and accompanying text , volume 277
For an analysis of the applicability of the PURETA to equity joint ventures , volume 25 , p. 143 - 144
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,127
RANK
470,088
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies