Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolving Tax System of the People's Republic of China

Richard D. Pomp, Timothy A. Gelatt & Stanley S. Surrey, The Evolving Tax System of the People's Republic of China, 16 Tex. Int'l L.J. 11 (1981)

68 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Sep 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Timothy Gelatt

affiliation not provided to SSRN (deceased)

Stanley Surrey

affiliation not provided to SSRN (deceased)

Date Written: 1981

Abstract

In 1980, the People’s Republic of China adopted an income tax on joint ventures and individuals. These two taxes have created great speculation since the passage of the Chinese Joint Venture Law in 1979, which created rules and procedures for foreign investors. Much of this interest arises due to the common misconceptions surrounding China’s tax structure. After the enactment of the two aforementioned taxes, eleven distinct taxes exist in China.

This article examines the consolidated industrial and commercial tax and various income taxes, which are most relevant to foreigners. Section I describes the consolidated industrial and commercial tax. Section II explains the industrial and commercial income tax. Sections III and IV detail the individual income tax and joint venture income tax. Section V analyzes the tax regime that applies to China’s “free trade” zones. Section VI discusses whether the individual and joint venture income taxes can be credited as a United States foreign tax credit. This section further examines the modifications necessary for China to implement its own foreign tax credit, and the differences between the OECD and United Nations tax treaty models. The article concludes by lauding the important achievement of implementing new tax laws on joint ventures and individuals, and explaining that the Chinese tax system will become more sophisticated as China’s tax officials become more experienced.

Keywords: tax, law, tax law, taxation, Chine, income tax, joint venture law, foreign investors, industrial and commercial tax, free trade zones, United States foreign tax credit, credit

JEL Classification: k34, h70, h71, h20

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard and Gelatt, Timothy and Surrey, Stanley, The Evolving Tax System of the People's Republic of China (1981). Richard D. Pomp, Timothy A. Gelatt & Stanley S. Surrey, The Evolving Tax System of the People's Republic of China, 16 Tex. Int'l L.J. 11 (1981), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3003346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
IITL Regulations, supra note 171, art. 4, para. 4, and seems to cover a distribution to investors that is not based on shares of stock, such as a distribution to members of a collective. The Chinese term for bonus
Income from the sale of property is not mentioned in either the IITL or its regulations. Income from the sale of at least one kind of property-agricultural products-is taxable under other provisions
Prizes and awards for scientific, technological or cultural achievements include prizes and awards given to individuals by the Chinese government or by Chinese or foreign scientific, technological or cultural organizations for inventions or creations in the fields of science, technology or culture. IITL Regulations, supra note 171, art. 8. Prizes and awards by foreign governments are not included. This omission may be unintentional since foreign organizations are included and it is not obvious why foreign governments should be excluded. 204. The exemption includes interest on savings deposits in RMB (RMB is the abbreviation for renminbi, the Chinese currency; the yuan is a unit of Chinese currency) and in foreign currency. Also exempted is interest on savings deposits in "other banks entrusted by the State banks Posted: 1981-12
These salaries include thb salaries of diplomats in foreign embassies, consulates and other persons enjoying the "same treatment" as diplomats. The exemption for salaries earned by "other persons" in foreign embassies and consulates in China is to be kept at the same level as the tax exemption granted by the foreign country for employees of similar status in Chinese embassies and consulates located in that foreign country. IITL Regulations
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,274
RANK
658,539
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies