Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Federal Tax Concepts as a Guide for State Apportionment of Dividends: Life after ASARCO

Richard D. Pomp & Rebecca S. Rudnick, Federal Tax Concepts as a Guide for State Apportionment of Dividends: Life After ASARCO, 17 Tax Notes 411 (1982)

18 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Sep 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Rebecca Rudnick

Independent

Date Written: November 8, 1982

Abstract

In ASARCO, Inc. v. Idaho State Tax Commission, the Supreme Court rejected Idaho’s definition of income, and limited the apportionability of dividends, interest, and capital gains. The Court held that a unitary business relationship did not exist between ASARCO and the dividend payors, but did not address whether such a relationship was a sufficient precondition or a necessary one.

This article addresses two federal tax doctrines that may provide insight into state taxation of dividends: (1) the “effectively connected” doctrine, and (2) the Corn Products doctrine. The article first provides a detailed examination of the facts in ASARCO, and discusses the Court’s holding. The article explains that Idaho’s sweeping definition of income, which conflated business and nonbusiness income, invited the Court’s rejection. Next, the article examines the applicability of Mobil Oil Corp. v. Commissioner of Taxes of Vermont, and how that holding is not dispositive regarding the apportionability of dividends in general. Finally, the article discusses the two aforementioned federal tax doctrines. These two doctrines do not expressly address the characterization of dividends as business income, but implicate the same underlying issue. The article concludes by explaining that the tax treatment of dividends and capital gains as business income is not unique to state taxation.

Keywords: tax, law, tax law, supreme court, dividends, interest, capital gains, state tax, taxation, business income

JEL Classification: k34, h70, h71, h20

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard and Rudnick, Rebecca, Federal Tax Concepts as a Guide for State Apportionment of Dividends: Life after ASARCO (November 8, 1982). Richard D. Pomp & Rebecca S. Rudnick, Federal Tax Concepts as a Guide for State Apportionment of Dividends: Life After ASARCO, 17 Tax Notes 411 (1982), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3004874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
FEDERAL TAX CONCEPTS AS A GUIDE FOR STATE APPORTIONMENT OF DIVIDENDS LIFE AFTER ASARCO
2019 FEDERAL TAX CONCEPTS AS A GUIDE FOR STATE APPORTIONMENT OF DIVIDENDS LIFE AFTER ASARCO
The Treasury regulations set forth a presumption of a direct relationship if "(1) the asset was acquired with funds generated by that trade or business, (2) the income from the asset is retained or reinvested in that trade or business, and (3) personnel who are present in the United States and actively involved in the conduct of that trade or business exercise signi cant management and control over the investment of such asset
Treas. Reg. Section , volume 1
Cf
Multistate Tax Comm'n Reg. Section IV.1(c)(4), ex.ii, 1 All States Tax Guide (CCH) para Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,172
RANK
834,175
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies