Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Conservative Accounting and the Pricing of Risk: The Case of Research and Development

37 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2017 Last revised: 6 Jun 2019

Dimos Andronoudis

Fathom Financial Consulting; University of Bristol - Department of Finance and Accounting

Christina Dargenidou

University of Exeter Business School - XFI Centre for Finance and Investment

Eirini Konstantinidi

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Peter F. Pope

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: April 30, 2019

Abstract

The rationale for conservatively expensing R&D investments under U.S. GAAP largely relies on the uncertainty of the R&D-related future benefits. We examine the temporal dimension of uncertainty reflecting the time distance between R&D expenditures and the realization of future benefits. We propose a new measure capturing the temporal dimension of uncertainty due to conservative accounting, excess duration. Within an Intertemporal Capital Asset Pricing (ICAPM) framework, we find that excess duration is positively related to priced risk through systematic discount rate risk. We verify that the ICAPM accommodates priced risk related to excess duration. Conservative R&D accounting communicates risk on the distance to uncertainty resolution that is priced by the equity market through systematic discount rate risk.



Keywords: R&D, Conservative Accounting, Duration, ICAPM.

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M40, M41, N22

Suggested Citation:

Andronoudis, Dimos and Dargenidou, Christina and Konstantinidi, Eirini and Pope, Peter F., Conservative Accounting and the Pricing of Risk: The Case of Research and Development (April 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3006537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3006537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
E Amir , Y Guan , G Livne
The association of R&D and capital expenditures with subsequent earnings variability
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 34 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 222 - 246 Posted: 2007
Crossref
R Barker , S H Penman
Moving the conceptual framework forward: Accounting for uncertainty
Contemporary Accounting Research . Forthcoming Posted: 2018
W H Beaver , M Mcnichols , R Price
Delisting returns and their effect on accounting-based market anomalies
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 43 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 341 - 368 Posted: 2007
Crossref
F Black
Capital market equilibrium with restricted borrowing
The Journal of Business , volume 45 , issue 3 , p. 444 - 455 Posted: 1972
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
323
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,606
RANK
213,875
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies