Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Ethics and the Professional Accountant: The Case of Ghana

7 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2017 Last revised: 16 Aug 2017

Gabriel Ahinful

KNUST Finance Office

Sheila Addo

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Felix Boateng

KNUST Finance Office

Jeff Danquah

Koforidua Polytechnic

Date Written: July 26, 2017

Abstract

The main objective of the study is to examine the extent to which the ethics of accounting is relevant to professional accountants. In doing so, the factors contributing to accounting fraud and the ethical challenges encountered by accountants will also be examined. The main respondents were accountants and auditors from intuitions in selected districts in the eastern region of Ghana. The study revealed that to a great extent accounting ethics is relevant to the professional accountants. However, there are challenges in adhering to ethical principles/codes of the accounting profession. The study also revealed that some factors, such as money and legalistic culture contribute to accounting fraud. It recommends that efforts aim at increasing ethical knowledge and standards at all levels should be strengthen by all stakeholders in the accounting profession.

Keywords: Fraud, Ethics, Challenges, Accountant, Ghana

Suggested Citation:

Ahinful, Gabriel and Addo, Sheila and Boateng, Felix and Danquah, Jeff, Accounting Ethics and the Professional Accountant: The Case of Ghana (July 26, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3009253 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3009253
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
C A Adams
The Ethical, Social and Environmental Reporting-Performance Portrayal Gap
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 17 , issue 5 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Aghdammazraeh , H Karimzadeh
The Role of Ethics on Accounting Posted: 2017-02-21
K F Alam
Business ethics in New Zealand organizations: Views from the middle and lower level managers
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 22 , p. 145 - 153 Posted: 1999
B M Armstrong
Ethics and professionalism in accounting education: A sample course
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 11 , p. 11 - 92 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,272
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,083
RANK
37,002
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies