Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prospects of Using the Financial Statement Data in Formation of SNA Indicators

Proceedings of the Paris International Academic Conference on Business & Economics, Education & Social Sciences, Paris, France, Hosted by Global Academic Institute, June 25-28, 2017

9 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2017

Natalyа Abrоskina

Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation (RANEPA) - Institute of Applied Economic Research

Alexander Abroskin

Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy; Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation (RANEPA) - Moscow Campus

Date Written: June 29, 2017

Abstract

The proposed approach to the development of gross value added indicator for Gazprom Group* on the basis of consolidated financial statement data is an example of practical solution to the complex of methodological and technical problems related to the harmonization of indicators, developed in accordance with the accounting systems based on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and methodology of the System of national accounts (SNA).

According to presented calculations, in 2015 the volume of gross output at basic prices by specified in reporting segments of the Group was estimated at the level of 8,991.4 bln. rub., intermediate consumption – 4,591.2 bln. rub., gross value added at market prices – 4,928.2 bln. rub. or 6.1% of total GDP of the Russian Federation.

Keywords: Gross Value Added, Gross Output, International Financial Reporting Standards, Intermediate Consumption, System of National Accounts, Production Account

JEL Classification: E01

Suggested Citation:

Abrоskina, Natalyа and Abroskin, Alexander, Prospects of Using the Financial Statement Data in Formation of SNA Indicators (June 29, 2017). Proceedings of the Paris International Academic Conference on Business & Economics, Education & Social Sciences, Paris, France, Hosted by Global Academic Institute, June 25-28, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3010070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Eurostat
Essential SNA: Building the basics Posted: 2013
International Accounting Standards (IAS) Posted: 2017-03-10
Crossref
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Posted: 2017-03-10
Crossref
Pjsc Gazprom
IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,306
RANK
856,872
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: National Income & Product Accounts eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies