Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Accounting Standards in the USA – Procedural Legitimacy: Governance, Participation and Decision-Making Processes

in “Measuring and Controlling Sustainability” Edited by Adam Lindgreen, Christine Vallaster, Dr. Shumaila Yousofzai, Bernhard Hirsch, Routledge

Posted: 7 Aug 2017 Last revised: 4 Aug 2018

Delphine Gibassier

Audencia Business School

Date Written: July 27, 2018

Abstract

This chapter examines the formal due process for the development of sustainability accounting standards and the participation of stakeholders in this process. It helps to refine current understanding of procedural legitimacy for multi-stakeholder initiatives. I analysed all the public documents available for the Consumption I group of standards developed by the U.S.-based Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Qualitative analysis is used to examine the due process and stakeholders’ participation, thereby clarifying procedural legitimacy. I explore the due process for sustainability accounting standards by looking at several key aspects of a multi-stakeholder process: governance, participation, transparency, and accountability. I conclude that the SASB developed an expert-based procedural legitimacy, which is a model diametrically opposed to the Global Reporting Initiative’s inclusive model. This has implications with regard to the voices that are silenced (civil society, SMEs, and NGOs) and therefore on the content of the standards that will be widely applied in the future – whether application is voluntary or, if recognised by the Security Exchange Commission, mandatory.

Keywords: multi-stakeholder initiative, SASB, sustainability accounting, due process, procedural legitimacy

JEL Classification: M4, M1

Suggested Citation:

Gibassier, Delphine, Sustainability Accounting Standards in the USA – Procedural Legitimacy: Governance, Participation and Decision-Making Processes (July 27, 2018). in “Measuring and Controlling Sustainability” Edited by Adam Lindgreen, Christine Vallaster, Dr. Shumaila Yousofzai, Bernhard Hirsch, Routledge , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013034
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies