Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Carbon Cowboys to Global GHG Accounting Professionals

Posted: 7 Aug 2017

Delphine Gibassier

Audencia Business School

Sami El Omari

Toulouse Business School

Date Written: August 3, 2017

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to study the emergence of a new occupation globally. From 1999 to 2016, a global occupation of GHG accounting professionals emerged around the globe in all five continents, and both developed and developing countries. The individual GHG accounting professionals who we interviewed in the different countries had no knowledge of other similar professionals working in other countries. The few professional associations that we encountered were not connected. The “cowboys” from the beginning, in the early 2000s, who worked with little infrastructure and tools, gradually became what we can now name GHG accounting professionals. Through this exploratory study of a new phenomenon, we attempt to explain how this occupation emerged and what constitutes the “organization” of this new occupation. Therefore, we contribute to the study of “emerging professions” in a globalized world (Muzio et al. 2011).

Keywords: Carbon Accounting, Occupation, Profession, Globalization, Collective Action

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M1

Suggested Citation:

Gibassier, Delphine and El Omari, Sami, From Carbon Cowboys to Global GHG Accounting Professionals (August 3, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3013101
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Politics & Energy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies