Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Efficient Structure or Tax Shelter? Curbing ETFs' Use of Section 852(b)(6) for Tax Avoidance

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2017

71 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2017

Steven Z. Hodaszy

Robert Morris University

Date Written: April 2017

Abstract

Exchange traded funds (ETFs) are a popular alternative to mutual funds for investing in a diversified pool of securities. One reason for ETFs’ popularity is that they are far more tax-efficient than mutual funds. Unlike mutual funds, most ETFs make virtually no capital gains distributions — which would be taxable to the recipient shareholders — in a typical year. The reason is the way that ETFs are able to take advantage of section 852(b)(6), which permits regulated investment companies (RICs) to deliver appreciated portfolio securities to redeeming shareholders without recognizing any gain. Because of the way they are structured, ETFs are able to redeem institutional investors “in-kind” in the normal course of their operations, while mutual funds generally need to satisfy shareholder redemptions in cash. The original purpose of section 852(b)(6) was to enable traditional mutual funds to satisfy redemptions in-kind under extraordinary circumstances in which cash redemptions could cause the funds undue harm. But ETFs now use section 852(b)(6) to avoid recognition of virtually any of their investment gains. This use provides ETF investors with an unwarranted tax break that mutual fund investors and direct investors in securities do not enjoy, and it constitutes a costly and indefensible tax expenditure. To eliminate this inequitable and expensive loophole in the current law, section 852(b)(6) ought to be revised in a way that prevents ETFs from continuing to use the measure to circumvent any and all capital gains taxation. This article recommends amending section 852(b)(6) to incorporate a rule that would reduce an ETF’s basis in its remaining portfolio securities by the amount of its excluded gain on an in-kind-redemption distribution. Under the proposed rule, an ETF would subsequently recognize portions of the previously-excluded gain when it sells portfolio securities in taxable sales. As a result, ETFs would no longer be able to escape ever recognizing any of their investment gains. Instead, taxation of much of their gain would merely be deferred — not avoided for all time.

Keywords: Exchange Traded Funds, ETFs, Tax Avoidance, Section 852(b)(6)

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hodaszy, Steven Z., Tax-Efficient Structure or Tax Shelter? Curbing ETFs' Use of Section 852(b)(6) for Tax Avoidance (April 2017). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3015948
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
&amp; Yoder , Howell
Crossref
Toolson
Improving Tax Efficiency, supra note 1, at 136. Technically, each creation unit represents one share of equity in the ETF, and the smaller "shares" sold by authorized participants to ultimate investors are "actually fractional units of an ETF's shares
Toolson
Tax Efficient ETFs, supra note 1, at 10; see also Yoder & Howell, supra note 189, at 234 (discussing how, after breaking creation units into individual ETF shares, authorized participants sell those "individual shares to retail or institutional investors
Sheppard
ETFs trade on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,194
RANK
215,325
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies