Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Independent Directors, Corporate Governance and Company Performance - India

44 Pages Posted: 15 Aug 2017 Last revised: 18 Nov 2020

Dr Gopalakrishnan Ramasubramanian

Ramasubramanian & Associates; GR Resources Legal

Date Written: August 12, 2017

Abstract

This study suggest that the independent directors role needs to strengthened to achieve the desired goal of corporate governance. In india, despite being listed, there is family ownership structure. This has an important influence on the priorities set by the board, and that these priorities will determine the firm performance and corporate governance, despite independent director monitoring,

It is found that where independent directors enjoying good trust with the family councils and have financial experience could ensure success to the best interest of the widely dispersed shareholders and stakeholders.

Understanding the influence of family and role of independent directors on the board of directors in turn on firm performance requires greater sensitivity to how corporate governance affects different aspects of effectiveness for different stakeholders and in different contexts.

Hence a framework on the interaction between ownership, corporate boards and firm performance could help.


This paper looks into the current scenario in Indian Corporate Sector and examine the role of Independent Director in Corporate Governance, in particular.

We are looking at Companies Registered in India and how the role of Independent Directors brings about better corporate governance and whether this brings about improved company performance.
Recourse to independent directors by private equity investors per se is not tied to performance increases. . Our study shows that independent directors impact the rate of return only on deals which require very specific skills, i.e. turnaround and buyout investments. Besides, busy independent directors do not seem to affect negatively the internal rate of return. Finally,
independent directors tend to resign when performance is unsatisfactory and consent to shave losses when performances are negative.
We are aware that Independent Directors (IDs) play a critical role in implementing sound corporate governance practices in companies.


Keywords: Independent Directors, Professional and Family Owned Board of Directors in India, Monitoring, Corporate Governance

Suggested Citation:

Ramasubramanian, Gopal, Independent Directors, Corporate Governance and Company Performance - India (August 12, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3017868 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3017868
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
N R
Narayan Murthy Committee on Corporate Governance Posted: 2003
Devendra Jarwal
Declaration of Dividend According to the Companies Act 2013 Along with Applicable Provisions of the Companies Act 1956
In New Dimensions in E-Governance (pp. 51-60). INSPIRA Research Association, 2018 Pages: 10 Posted: 19 Mar 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Devendra Jarwal
Declaration of Dividend According to the Companies Act 2013 Along with Applicable Provisions of the Companies Act 1956
In New Dimensions in E-Governance (pp. 51-60). INSPIRA Research Association, 2018 Pages: 10 Posted: 19 Mar 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kumara Mangalam Birla Committee on Corporate Governance Posted: 1999
Load more
1 Citations
Pankaj Kumar Gupta , Prabhat Mittal
Corporate Governance and Risk Bundling: Evidence from Indian Companies
European Journal of Business Science and Technology , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 37 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
295
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,870
RANK
235,913
1 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies