Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relation between the Readability of Accounting Footnotes Information and the Company Value of the Appraisal Reports of Public Tender Offer in Brazil

20 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2017

Samantha Telles

University of Sao Paulo

Almir Ferreira de Sousa

University of São Paulo (USP)

Date Written: August 15, 2017

Abstract

We studied the relation between the Accounting footnotes readability and company value, using five metrics to measure readability: word, sentence, and paragraph lengths, numbers of graphic elements and pages. To obtain the company value, we used appraisal reports of public tender offer to acquire shares from the last nine years, which got to a 90 Brazilian company sample. The methods analyzed were: discounted cash flow, market price of shares after the public tender offer announcement, multiples, and equity book value. The results showed a high correlation between the sentence length and all four valuation methods, while the OLS multiple regression showed a relation between the footnote readability component that included word and sentence lengths and company valuation by DCF and equity methods. The other indexes showed no relation to the company value, except when we use the share price before the announcement as a control variable, then, it becomes significant for the equity method.

Keywords: Valuation, Readability, Public tender offer to acquire shares, Footnotes

Suggested Citation:

Telles, Samantha and Ferreira de Sousa, Almir, The Relation between the Readability of Accounting Footnotes Information and the Company Value of the Appraisal Reports of Public Tender Offer in Brazil (August 15, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3019239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3019239
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A H Adelberg
A Methodology for Measuring the Understandability of Financial Report Messages
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 565 - 592 Posted: 1979
Crossref
A P Araújo , A Neto
A contabilidade tradicional e a contabilidade baseada em valor
Revista Contabilidade & Finanças , volume 33 , p. 16 - 32 Posted: 2003
Crossref
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The relevance of value relevance literature for financial accounting standard setting: another view
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 31 , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
V Beattie , B Mcinnes , S Fearnley
A methodology for analysing and evaluating narratives in annual reports: a comprehensive descriptive profile and metrics for disclosure quality attributes
Accounting Forum , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 205 - 236 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,356
RANK
663,174
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies