Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Strategies for U.S. Farmers: Tax Reduction and Averting Risk

Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 49-61

13 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2017

Jeffrey Decker

University of Hawaii at Hilo

Richard Ray

California State University, Chico

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

This paper presents tax planning strategies specific to farmers. We discuss several opportunities in which a farming operation can either reduce its current tax liability or preserve tax benefits for the future. Under current U.S. tax laws, special provisions exist that are designed to offer the U.S. farmer favorable tax treatment. We specifically highlight these provisions in an effort to remind others of their existence. In addition, there are other provisions within U.S. tax laws that are not so favorable to the U.S. farmer. We provide some suggestions on how the farmer can bypass these rules simply by altering facts and circumstances, which is a lawful behavior. For example, the first strategy we discuss requires the U.S. farmer to plant a secondary crop in order to accelerate cost recovery on an irrigation system. By planting a secondary crop, the farmer has changed the facts and circumstances. Finally, some of the strategies we discuss contain potential risks. We specifically emphasize these risks areas and offer suggestions on how to avoid them.

Keywords: Tax Planning, Farming, Agriculture, U.S. Tax Laws

JEL Classification: G18, G38

Suggested Citation:

Decker, Jeffrey and Ray, Richard, Tax Strategies for U.S. Farmers: Tax Reduction and Averting Risk (2017). Revista Internacional Administracion & Finanzas, v. 9 (1) p. 49-61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3025037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , D Larcker
The incentives for tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 391 - 411 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Kong-Pin Chen , C. Y. Cyrus Chu
Internal Control vs External Manipulation: A Model of Corporate Income Tax Evasion
RAND Journal of Economics Pages: 25 Posted: 17 Dec 2002
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
S Chen , X Chen , T Shevlin
Are family firms more tax aggressive than non-family firms?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 63 , p. 551 - 570 Posted: 2010
Crossref
K Crocker , J Slemrod
Corporate tax evasion with agency costs
Journal of Public Economics , volume 89 , p. 1593 - 1610 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Micah Frankel , John Tan
Strategies and Evidence for Deduction of Business Expenses Under Internal Revenue Code Section 168(K), 179, and 274
Accounting & Taxation, v. 13 (1) p. 75-96 · 22 Pages · Posted: 11 Aug 2021 · Downloads: 96
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
753,736
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies