Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-BEPS Tax Advisory and Tax Structuring from a Tax Practitioner's View

Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2017

15 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2017

Paul Lankhorst

Ministry of Finance of the Netherlands

Harmen van Dam

Loyens & Loeff N.V.

Date Written: August 28, 2017

Abstract

The international tax landscape is changing and it is changing fast. The political perception is that taxation of multinational enterprises is not aligned with the ‘economic activity’ that produces their profits (i.e. not aligned with ‘value creation’). The perception links ‘value creation’ with ‘employees and sales’.

In the BEPS Project of the OECD, the OECD attempts to combat base erosion and profit shifting and to align taxation with value creation. In this article, the authors discuss the impact they expect BEPS to have on tax advisory and tax planning. The focus goes to BEPS Actions 7, 8-10 and 13.

By maintaining the separate entity approach under BEPS for the taxation of multinationals, has the OECD been forced to ‘stretch’ existing rules beyond their limits? Will the created uncertainty lead to a shift from ‘aggressive tax planning’ by multinationals to ‘aggressive tax collection’ by tax administrations? Will the role of tax advisory change from advising on the lowest possible effective tax rate to a broader advice including risk appetite and public expectations?

Keywords: BEPS, value creation, tax structuring, international taxation

Suggested Citation:

Lankhorst, Paul and van Dam, Harmen, Post-BEPS Tax Advisory and Tax Structuring from a Tax Practitioner's View (August 28, 2017). Erasmus Law Review, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3026303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
The Case for Unitary Taxation of International Enterprises', 62 Bulletin for International Taxation
Kobetsky argues essentially that taxing highly integrated international enterprises (e.g. banks) on a unitary basis is appropriate because these businesses operate on a unitary basis , volume 201 Posted: 2008
Unitary Taxation: The Case for Global Formulary Apportionment', 55 Bulletin for International Taxation , p. 275 - 86 Posted: 2001
De Wilde
Posted: 2015
See Action Report , volume 7
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,223
RANK
427,404
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies