Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Accounting Malfeasance and Financial Reporting Restatements in the Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Era

Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 8 (1) p. 41-48

8 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2017

Peter Harris

New York Institute of Technology

Katherine Kinkela

New York Institute of Technology

Liz Washington Arnold

The Citadel

Michelle Liu

CUNY Hunter College

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The U.S. Congress passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) was a direct response to the accounting scandals of the 1990s and an attempt to reform the financial/business reporting process. Due to corporate malfeasance in the United States since the mid 1990s, there has been a significant increase in the number of companies restating their financial statements. After a large increase in restatements over the first years after SOX, for the past five years, fewer companies are restating financial statements. This paper provides an overview of corporate accounting malfeasance, the state of corporate accounting malfeasance, reasons for its occurrence, comprehensive listings of the types of corporate accounting malfeasance activities, and the U.S. legislative response. The paper also theorizes that not only is corporate accounting malfeasance is here to stay, but malfeasance is an inherent part of the U.S. and global financial system, regardless of the policies implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), other regulatory bodies, or leading institutions of the accounting profession. The paper suggests that certain aspects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been effective in helping companies to detect fraud more easily, and corporations have added internal controls and provided restatements of financial statements to demonstrate their commitment to compliance. Future commitment to internal controls for corporations and auditors is necessary to ensure transparency in financial statements.

Keywords: Accountant, Accounting, Auditing, Fraud, Malfeasance, Sarbanes-Oxley, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Peter and Kinkela, Katherine and Arnold, Liz Washington and Liu, Michelle, Corporate Accounting Malfeasance and Financial Reporting Restatements in the Post-Sarbanes-Oxley Era (2017). Review of Business & Finance Studies, v. 8 (1) p. 41-48, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3028269
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Improving Business Reporting-A Customer Focus; Meeting the Information Needs of Investors and Creditors. The Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting Posted: 1994
Business Reporting, Assurance & Advisory Services Posted: 2006
Crossref
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners
Report to the Nation Occupational Fraud and Abuse Posted: 2002
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 1999. Fraudulent Financial Reporting: 1987-1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,943
RANK
439,313
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies