Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Non-Controlling Interests on Reliability of Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet

American Journal of Business, Economics and Management, Vol. 5, No 5, 2017, pp. 51-57

7 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2017

Jacek Welc

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: August 28, 2017

Abstract

In this paper the selected problems of reliability and usefulness of consolidated financial statements, brought about by the existence of significant non-controlling interests, are discussed and illustrated with numerical examples. Non-controlling interests, labeled also as minority interests, reflect the participation of entities other than the parent company in economic benefits (both profits as well as net assets) generated by its non-wholly owned subsidiaries. If significant, non-controlling interests may dramatically erode the usefulness and credibility of individual line items of the parent company’s consolidated financial statements, which also implies erosion of the usefulness of financial statement analysis tools, such as accounting ratios. This is so because under both IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) and US GAAP (US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles), financial results of controlled entities are fully consolidated with the parent’s results, regardless of the actual share of the parent in its subsidiary’s shareholder’s equity. The possible distorting impact of non-controlling interests on individual line items of consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, as well as on selected accounting ratios, is illustrated by the hypothetical scenarios, based on real-life data of Fiat Group.

Keywords: Consolidated Financial Statements, Non-Controlling Interests, Financial Statement Analysis, Financial Statement Consolidation

Suggested Citation:

Welc, Jacek, Impact of Non-Controlling Interests on Reliability of Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet (August 28, 2017). American Journal of Business, Economics and Management, Vol. 5, No 5, 2017, pp. 51-57, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3028573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
K Alfredson , K Leo , R Picker , J Loftus , K Clark , V Wise
Applying International Financial Reporting Standards Posted: 2009
Crossref
P Atrill
Financial Management for Non-Specialists Posted: 2000
F Bancel , U R Mittoo
The Gap Between Theory and Practice of Firm Valuation: Survey of European Valuation Experts
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 26 , p. 106 - 117 Posted: 2014
Crossref
F R David
Strategic Management. Concepts and Cases Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
740
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,534
RANK
78,826
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies