Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Sharia and U.S. Tax Law Collide

Tax Notes International, Volume 87, No. 8, August 21, 2017

9 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2017

Virginia La Torre Jeker, J.D.

Independent

Date Written: August 21, 2017

Abstract

Sharia law impacts the US tax analysis of transactions arising in any Muslim-majority country or in any country when Muslim persons are involved in the transaction. Neither the US courts nor the Internal Revenue Service have provided guidance as to how the matter should be resolved when US tax and Sharia laws collide. This article addresses the role of Sharia law in US international taxation and seeks to raise professional awareness of the possible pitfalls when dealing with clients having a connection to Sharia and the US.

Keywords: Sharia, US Tax, International Tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jeker, Virginia La Torre, When Sharia and U.S. Tax Law Collide (August 21, 2017). Tax Notes International, Volume 87, No. 8, August 21, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3032659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
403
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
RANK
167,202
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies