Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Like-Kind Exchanges of Timber Rights

Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 27, 2017

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 522

5 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2017

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: September 12, 2017

Abstract

The exchange of timber rights is a niche area of the law, but issues related to such exchanges arise from time to time in various practices. Keeping track of the cases and rulings that have considered the tax consequences of exchange timber rights can be difficult. This article reviews those authorities and summarizes the state of law regarding like-kind exchanges of timber rights. The article shows that courts and the IRS do not treat rights to remove standing timber as like kind to other real property interests, so exchanges of such property do not qualify for section 1031 nonrecognition. Rights in standing timber may, however, be like kind to other rights in standing timber, and interests in real property that includes standing timber can be like kind to other real property. The general principles derived from the existing body of law should provide fairly clear guidance for taxpayers and their advisors who are considering the tax consequences of transfers or acquisitions of timber rights.

Keywords: Section 1031 exchange, exchange of timber rights

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Like-Kind Exchanges of Timber Rights (September 12, 2017). Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 20, Pg. 27, 2017, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 522, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3035937
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,515
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies