Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Audit Risk Model, the Signal Detection Theory, and the Information Manipulation Theory

9 Pages Posted: 27 Sep 2017

Ashraf Elsayed

Northcentral University

Date Written: May 5, 2017

Abstract

The Audit Risk Model. The Statement of Auditing Standard (SAS) 99, 107, and International Standards on Auditing (ISA) 240, 315, and 330 require auditors to assess fraud risk factors and materiality level (risk of material misstatement) in a client's financial statements (Bhattacharjee, Maletta, & Moreno, 2016). It further requires auditors to gather sufficient appropriate audit evidences in order to provide reasonable assurance whether the client's financial statements are free of material misstatements (Bhattacharjee, Maletta, & Moreno, 2016). The auditors have to assess the effectiveness of a client’s internal control over the financial reporting, thereby plan the nature, timing, and the extent of their audit procedures to assess the fraud risk in a client's financial statements (Burton, Wilks, & Zimbelman, 2013). The SAS 107 provides a model for audit risk, in which, audit risk (AR) = inherent risk (IR) X control risk (CR) X detection risk (DR). The inherent risk is the susceptibility for an account or assertion to be materially misstated, whereas the control risk is the risk that an entity's internal controls fail to detect financial reporting misstatement. The detection risk is the risk that substantive and analytical audit procedures fail to detect misstatements in the financial reporting. However, this model does not address the influence of sociological, organizational, and ethical factors on the management fraud and does not account for type I and type II audit errors risk, which is the risk to reject fairly presented financial reporting (false negative), and the risk to accept fraudulent audit report (false positive) respectively.

Suggested Citation:

Elsayed, Ashraf, The Audit Risk Model, the Signal Detection Theory, and the Information Manipulation Theory (May 5, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3039056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3039056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
S Bhattacharjee , M J Maletta , K K Moreno
The Role of Account Subjectivity and Risk of Material Misstatement on Auditors' Internal Audit Reliance Judgments. Accounting Horizons , volume 30 , p. 225 - 238 Posted: 2016
Crossref
F G Burton , T J Wilks , M F Zimbelman
How auditor legal liability influences the detection and frequency of fraudulent financial reporting
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 9 - 15 Posted: 2013
Crossref
A A Elsayed
Predictability of financial statements fraud-risk (Order No. 10271451) Posted: 2017
J M Honeycutt , J H Eldredge
Applying game theory and signal detection theory to conflict escalation: A case study of a police investigator viewing a domestic argument
International Journal of Mathematics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 23 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
781
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,419
RANK
73,440
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies