Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Re-Orienting the Statement of Cash Flows around Cash Flows to Equity Holders

17 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2017

Ilia D. Dichev

Emory University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 21, 2017

Abstract

This paper argues that the Statement of Cash Flows should be re-oriented around the concept of Cash Flows to Equity Holders. This re-orientation seems attractive for conceptual and internal consistency reasons. The Income Statement and the Balance Sheet are already oriented around reporting the residual claim of equity holders. Thus, re-orienting the Statement of Cash Flows around Cash Flows to Equity Holders naturally aligns it with the other two principal financial statements. The change has also considerable practical appeal for major users of financial reporting, especially investors who are interested in equity cash flows for forecasting and valuation. Finally, the proposed change is unusually easy to implement, essentially limited to different presentation of already existing information.

Keywords: Statement of Cash Flows, Cash Flows to Equity Holders

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Dichev, Ilia D., Re-Orienting the Statement of Cash Flows around Cash Flows to Equity Holders (September 21, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040801 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3040801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts , issue 8 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Exposure draft of Chapter 7 (Presentation) of Statement of Financial Concepts No
Financial Accounting Standards Board , issue 8 Posted: 2016
Russell Lundholm , Richard G Sloan
Equity valuation and analysis with eVal Posted: 2013
Stephen H Penman
The design of financial statements
Center for Excellence in Accounting and Security Analysis Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,019
RANK
290,067
1 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies