Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Blockchains Serve an Accounting Purpose?

Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting 14 (2): 101-111, 2017

Posted: 28 Sep 2017 Last revised: 13 Sep 2019

Joshua G. Coyne

University of Central Arkansas

Date Written: September 1, 2017

Abstract

The blockchain has enabled the successful creation of decentralized digital currency networks. This success has prompted further investigation into the usefulness of blockchains in other business settings. Because of the blockchain’s use as a ledger, the question arises whether the blockchain could become a more secure alternative to current accounting ledgers. We show that this is infeasible. By casting this question in the context of the Byzantine Generals Problem that the blockchain was designed to solve, we identify multiple flaws hindering implementation of the blockchain as a financial reporting tool. Whereas blockchain-based digital currencies only exist within the blockchain, economic transactions exist outside of accounting records. This distinction prevents an acceptable level of transaction verification using the blockchain model. Additionally, the security benefits of the blockchain that render it ostensibly immutable are not fully available or reliable in an accounting setting.

Keywords: Financial Accounting, Blockchain, Ledger, Database

JEL Classification: M4, O3

Suggested Citation:

Coyne, Joshua G., Can Blockchains Serve an Accounting Purpose? (September 1, 2017). Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting 14 (2): 101-111, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3043314
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,986
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies