Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Smear and Fear by Numbers: Accounting, Information Technology, and Economic Control for the New Capitalism

G. Mickhail, "Smear and Fear by Numbers: Accounting, Information Technology, and Economic Control for the New Capitalism," in IEEE Technology and Society Magazine, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 81-87, Sept. 2017. [doi: 10.1109/MTS.2017.2728732]

Posted: 2 Oct 2017

George Mickhail

Bryant University - Bryant Zhuhai

Date Written: September 14, 2017

Abstract

The new capitalism may be described in terms of the Innovation that enabled corporations to transform their demand and supply trade exchanges with their customers and suppliers through the Internet. This enabled (and better controlled) their outsourcing of non-core and core activities, which naturally eliminated the need for capital resources. Furthermore, this permitted corporations to decapitalise and reduce considerably their “plant, property and equipment” with all the associated long-term financing liabilities (long-term debt) and associated running and maintenance expenses. The composite of innovation, outsourcing and decapitalisation represent the fundamental tenets of the new capitalism. Institutions in the new capitalism are driven by an economic ideal of optimal resource allocation through the use of information technology, leading to maximised utility, or in short: efficiency. The quest for efficiency is a reality involving both private and public corporations; where an emphasis on control over resource utilisation is achieved through methods of “bureaucratic accounting technology, which can be coupled to totalitarian and democratic political regimes alike”. The problem is that accounting wields influence over any aspect of society that is subject to economic calculation, propounding a complex moral technology that expresses and endorses specific models of social and economic relations. The language of asset, cost, expense, liability and profit which informs accounting is often less precise; its objective measurement of what an asset or an expense is, for example, is often highly contestable. Dubious profit (or loss) measurements have real consequences that affect our professional and personal lives alike. Information Technology, like accounting is chiefly used for its perceived economic efficiency, and while driven by ideals of procedural fairness and impartiality, both are dubious in terms of their accuracy and precision. These technically ambiguous and not so readily transparent practices, with their abstraction from operational detail leave room for misinformation and misinterpretation, which can lead to tangible freedoms, or a lack thereof. No doubt, new technological developments, such as Machine Learning and the Internet of Things (IoT) will impact our private and professional lives alike. The social implications of such a reality have been widely discussed, with a bleak warning about the erosion of privacy in the “transparent society” due to the technological efficiency of low-cost surveillance.

Keywords: Economics, Resource management, Information technology, Loss measurement, Technological innovation, Outsourcing, Ethics

JEL Classification: M41, O30, O31, O33

Suggested Citation:

Mickhail, George, Smear and Fear by Numbers: Accounting, Information Technology, and Economic Control for the New Capitalism (September 14, 2017). G. Mickhail, "Smear and Fear by Numbers: Accounting, Information Technology, and Economic Control for the New Capitalism," in IEEE Technology and Society Magazine, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 81-87, Sept. 2017. [doi: 10.1109/MTS.2017.2728732], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3044867
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
643
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies