Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Hesaabdaaree an Adequate Equivalent for Accounting?

International Journal of Finance and Managerial Accounting, Vol 1(4), Autumn 2016

11 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2017

Ahmad Nasseri

University of Sistan and Baluchestan; Accounting Department

Hassan Yazdifar

University of Glasgow

Mohammad Ali Mahmoodi

University of Sistan & Baluchestan

Akram Arefi

M.A. in Persian Language and Literature

Abstract

Some of the difficulties and misunderstandings that happen in accounting theory, practice, regulation and education are grounded in language and linguistics. As an illustration of this the Persian equivalent of 'accounting' is linguistically analysed to reveal how a mistranslation may cause difficulties in understanding and improving Iranian Accounting. This paper shows how Hesaabdaaree is not a complete Persian equivalent for 'Accounting'. The examination is followed through two linguistic methods. First, a localistic lexical semantic approach is applied. Hesaabdaaree is a combination of an Arabic noun and a Persian suffix. It is then argued that the impuissance and limitations of hesaabdaaree in transferring all conceptual aspects of accounting has not arisen from hesaab, but daaree. Next, a holistic lexical semantic approach is applied to examine the sense of Hesaabdaaree within its word family to find out if it conveys the precise sense of accounting. Both the localistic and holistic examinations reveal the weaknesses of the Persian word Hesaabdaaree in transferring the exact meaning of 'Accounting'. This paper adds to the existing body of accounting theory and methodology by: a) introducing and examining a linguistic problem (i.e. translation) that causes difficulties and misunderstandings within the realm of accounting; b) practically examining the relevance of a linguistic method in accounting research; and c) analysing the weaknesses of the word Hesaabdaaree in transferring the full sense of 'Accounting'.

Keywords: Accounting; Language; Translation; Persian; Hesaabdaaree

Suggested Citation:

Nasseri, Ahmad and Yazdifar, Hassan and Mahmoodi, Mohammad Ali and Arefi, Akram, Is Hesaabdaaree an Adequate Equivalent for Accounting?. International Journal of Finance and Managerial Accounting, Vol 1(4), Autumn 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3049326
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Sally Aisbitt , Christopher Nobes
The True and Fair View Requirement in Recent National Implementations
Accounting and Business Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 83 - 90 Posted: 2001
Crossref
David Alexander
A European True and Fair View?
European Accounting Review , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 1993
Crossref
S Archer , S Mcleay
Issues in Transnational Financial Reporting: A Linguistic Analysis
Journal of multilingual and multicultural development , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 347 - 361 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Nancy A Bagranoff , A Keith , Jane Houghton , Hronsky
The Structure of Meaning in Accounting: A Cross-Cultural Experiment , volume 6 , p. 35 - 57 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,396
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies