Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploiting Interrelationships Among Numbers to Expose Accounting Tricks

21 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2017 Last revised: 20 Oct 2017

John Thomas

XAVIER INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP

Date Written: October 17, 2017

Abstract

This paper deals with financial numbers in their raw form. However, before we actually go into the nitty-gritties of calculations, we must gently introduce the subject. But the purpose is to convey that numbers can reveal a lot provided you have clarity of purpose and ability to look beyond the numbers themselves. We deal only with the numbers that are produced by the accountants in their three statements; namely, The Balance Sheet, The Income Statement and The Statement of Cash Flows. The method we use in fact is an analysis of percentages and ratios, which uncover inter-relationships among the various numbers that appear in these statements. Financial statement analysis is an essential part of financial intelligence. Business acumen and the ability to diagnose what your business needs at particular inflection points cannot be separated from each other. These skills are essential in a variety of professions, investment, management, corporate finance and commercial lending are some examples. But the ordinary executive in a business needs these skills to be effective and advance his career. For individuals, who engage in such activities, and analyze financial data for personal investment decisions, the distinct priority is to avoid being caught on the wrong foot. It is hard to digest the ebbing away of personal net worth as a result of having relied on dubious financial information.

Keywords: Finance, Accounting, Ratio-Analysis, Bankruptcy, Audit Trail

Suggested Citation:

Thomas, John, Exploiting Interrelationships Among Numbers to Expose Accounting Tricks (October 17, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3054491 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3054491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
793
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies