Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Activity-Based Costing: A Synthesis of Findings on Its Adoption and Implementation

26 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2017

Niklas Storgaard

Aarhus University

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: January 1, 2017

Abstract

The paper reviews the literature on the adoption and implementation (A&I) process of activity-based costing (ABC). The paper finds that the majority of the studies have tried to identify technical, behavioral, organizational and other contextual factors that result in the adoption and successful implementation of ABC. However, findings have been inconclusive and only found few specific factors for instance top management support, implementation training, non-accounting ownership and business size, to be associated with a successful process. Only few studies challenge the well-behaved adoption and implementation process assumed in the factor studies, as the process actually includes legitimization issues, power struggles among individuals and pressure from certain institutions. To advance the research within the adoption & implementation of ABC, a future research agenda is proposed. This includes a request for research within new geographical regions and organizational sizes, a demand for a new research framework in contingency-theory related factor studies and a call for research within alternative management accounting research perspectives to illustrate the complexity of the adoption & implementation process.

Keywords: Activity-based Costing, ABC, literature review, activity-based management, adoption, implementation, costing

JEL Classification: M00, M10, M21, M41

Suggested Citation:

Storgaard, Niklas and Lueg, Rainer, Activity-Based Costing: A Synthesis of Findings on Its Adoption and Implementation (January 1, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3055665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
A Bhimani , D Pigott
Implementing ABC: A case study of organizational and behavioural consequences
Management Accounting Research , volume 3 , issue 2 Posted: 1992
Crossref
T Bjørnenak
Diffusion and accounting: The case of ABC in Norway
Management Accounting Research , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 1997
Crossref
T Bjørnenak , F Mitchell
The development of activity-based costing journal literature
European Accounting Review , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 481 - 508 Posted: 1987
Crossref
B G Borisov , R Lueg
Are you sure about what you mean by 'uncertainty'? The actor's perspective vs. the institutional perspective
Proceedings of Pragmatic Constructivism , volume 2 , p. 51 - 58 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
411
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,885
RANK
163,472
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies