Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRA Rollovers to Qualified Plans: The Retained Investment Issue

Tax Notes, Vol. 156, No. 12, 2017

5 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017

Vorris J. Blankenship

Tax Planning for Retirees

Date Written: September 18, 2017

Abstract

A taxpayer generally cannot distribute after-tax investment from his or her IRA, and avoid tax by leaving untaxed earnings in the IRA. Unfortunately, each IRA distribution must contain a proportionate amount of both taxable earnings and nontaxable investment. Nevertheless, a taxpayer may be able to achieve a similar result by rolling over part of an IRA distribution tax-free to a consenting qualified retirement plan. The tax law specifically limits such a tax-free rollover to the earnings portion of the distribution. Thus, the taxpayer may retain the nontaxable investment portion tax-free.

In some circumstances, a taxpayer might want to argue that he or she should be able to roll over earnings from an IRA directly to a qualified plan without distributing any related investment (i.e., by leaving the related investment in the IRA) or rolling it over to a Roth IRA. Congress, after all, has clearly shown that it approves only rollovers of earnings (and not investment) from IRAs to qualified plans. What is the utility then of forcing unwanted distributions of related investment that undermine the general goal of allowing funds contributed to an IRA to accumulate tax-free for retirement? Unfortunately, however, these arguments are unlikely to prevail.

Keywords: IRA, rollover, qualified plan

Suggested Citation:

Blankenship, Vorris J., IRA Rollovers to Qualified Plans: The Retained Investment Issue (September 18, 2017). Tax Notes, Vol. 156, No. 12, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
975
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Household Finance eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies