Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation of Salmon Farmers

Forthcoming in Aquaculture Economics & Management

29 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2017

Bard Misund

University of Stavanger

Date Written: October 2017

Abstract

Financial statement information is important for evaluating a firm’s performance, and for forecasting its future cash flows. This paper studies the relationship between financial accounting information and market valuation for publically listed salmon farming companies. Of special interest is the impact on market valuation, of a requirement for salmon farmers to disclose the effect on their financial numbers of the fair-value adjustment of biomass. The results suggest that the fair-value adjustment results in higher volatility of profits, and lower value relevance for investors.

Keywords: Atlantic salmon production, valuation, market capitalization, value-relevance, stock markets, share prices, profitability, financial performance, earnings, price-to-book, valuation multiples, cost of capital

Suggested Citation:

Misund, Bard, Valuation of Salmon Farmers (October 2017). Forthcoming in Aquaculture Economics & Management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3056148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
T G Abate , R &amp; R Nielsen , Tveteras
Stringency of environmental regulation and aquaculture growth: A cross-country analysis
Aquaculture Economics & Management , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 201 - 221 Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Agostino , D D B Drago , Silipo
The value relevance of IFRS in the European banking industry
Review of Quantitative Financial Accounting , volume 36 , p. 437 - 457 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A S Ahmed , E G J Kilic , Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Amir , &amp; B Lev
Value-relevance of nonfinancial information: The wireless communications industry
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 22 , p. 3 - 30 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,378
RANK
534,865
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies