Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Social and Environmental Performance and Their Relation to Financial Performance and Institutional Ownership: Empirical Evidence on Canadian Firms

Posted: 25 May 2002

Lois Mahoney

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Robin W. Roberts

University of Central Florida - Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting

Date Written: Undated

Abstract

Social and environmental accounting issues became a topic of both academic and practitioner research approximately 20 years ago. Since that initial surge of interest, however, a relatively modest number of academic and practitioner studies have been performed. Recently, national governments, corporations, professional accounting associations, and professional services firms are beginning to show a strong, renewed interest in corporate social responsibility, performance and reporting, stressing a perceived relation between social and environmental performance and measures of firm success.

This study tests empirically the relation of social and environmental performance to financial performance and institutional ownership. Utilizing four years of panel data for a sample of Canadian firms, we find a significant and positive relationship between a firm's environmental performance and its financial performance. In addition, our findings indicate a significant, positive relationship between a firm's social performance and the number of institutions owning its shares. These results partially support arguments that corporate social and environmental performance is positively related to firm success.

Keywords: social and environmental reporting, institutional ownership, financial performance, Canada

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Mahoney, Lois and Roberts, Robin W., Corporate Social and Environmental Performance and Their Relation to Financial Performance and Institutional Ownership: Empirical Evidence on Canadian Firms (Undated). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=305781
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies