Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cheque Kiting? I Have an Idea!!

Posted: 24 Oct 2017

Cenap Ilter

California State University

Date Written: October 23, 2017

Abstract

This article is about the treatment of cheque collection accounting treatment in US and its possible abuse for cheque kiting and misrepresentation of cash reported on the balance sheets. There has been cheque kiting incidents where fraudsters were able to pretend that they had money in their bank accounts. The present electronic cheque clearance has reduced this possibility of cheque kiting but did not erase it. Banks still credit customer account with deposited cheques and let their customers use some of that money. The article is proposing that cheque is an account receivable until it is collected and the banks should not credit customer accounts with the deposited cheques. Likewise companies-businesses should not debit their cash balances with cheques received from customers until the cheques are collected through the banking system.

Suggested Citation:

Ilter, Cenap, Cheque Kiting? I Have an Idea!! (October 23, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3057604
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
948
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies