Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Crash Course on Reportable Transaction Penalties for Material Advisors

Journal of Taxation

5 Pages Posted: 26 Oct 2017

Megan L. Brackney

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: October 01, 2017

Abstract

Practitioners who are “material advisors” with respect to “reportable transactions,” are required to report to the IRS, and to maintain information about, those transactions, and are subject to onerous penalties if they fail to comply. The definition of a “material advisor” is complex, and it is helpful to break it down into its components. However, if there is any question as to whether you are a material advisor, rather than parsing these definitions, and potentially ending up on the losing side of the argument with the IRS years down the road, consider protectively filing the required reports and maintaining lists.

Suggested Citation:

Brackney, Megan L., A Crash Course on Reportable Transaction Penalties for Material Advisors (October 01, 2017). Journal of Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3059102 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3059102
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Section , volume 6707 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Id
Section 6501(a)
CCA Posted: 201047022
Reg
, volume 301 , p. 6707 - 6708
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,085
RANK
253,661
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies