Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limiting Meaning of Domestic Law under Article 3(2) of DTAA

Income Tax Reports, (2017) 398 ITR (Journal) 16-25.

10 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2017 Last revised: 26 Dec 2017

Tarun Jain

Supreme Court of India

Date Written: October 23, 2017

Abstract

In a recent decision the European Court of Justice (‘ECJ’) has ruled upon the scope and contours of Article 3(2) usually employed in Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements (‘DTAA’) / Double Taxation Conventions (‘DTC’) to apply the domestic law meaning for interpreting expressions not defined in the DTAA / DTC. In this short yet significant ruling, the ECJ has extended the scope of inquiry by referring to various other provisions within the DTAA / DTC to conclude that a limited thrust should be given to Article 3(2).

The conclusion of the ECJ is a significant jurisprudential development in the space of interpreting the DTAA / DTC. This article examines this decision to reflect upon the significance of the tests emanating from this decision and its future applications in such disputes.

Keywords: Double Taxation Convention, Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, Article 3(2), Domestic Law Meaning

JEL Classification: H22, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Jain, Tarun, Limiting Meaning of Domestic Law under Article 3(2) of DTAA (October 23, 2017). Income Tax Reports, (2017) 398 ITR (Journal) 16-25., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3071619
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
730,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies