Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Capital Accounting: Assessing Possibilities for Domestication of Practice in Nigeria

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1697 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2847 (Online) Vol 3, No 10, 2012

7 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2017

Mohammed Musa waziri Kirfi

Usmanu Danfodiyo University (UDUSOK) - Department of Public Administration

Aminu Abdullahi

Usmanu Danfodiyo University

Date Written: september 10, 2012

Abstract

The paper aims at Assessing Possibilities for Domestication of HRA Practice in Nigeria, we review historical background of HRA and its current practices around the world in order to highlight some important lessons that could be learned by Nigeria as benefit or otherwise of HRA practice to the economy. The study utilized purely secondary data in form of journal articles, theses, dissertations and web-based materials. This paper discovered that, the existing accounting practice lack regard to human resource as an asset and that have significantly discouraged the use of any or a combination of measurement technique(s) in quantifying human resource let alone reporting it in Nigeria, it also established that HRA practice will enhance the completeness and quality of financial reporting in Nigeria by providing more information on the real value of companies to investors and other stakeholders for rational decision making. Moreover, the article concludes that, it is possible to domesticate HRA practice in Nigeria considering that, both professional and accounting standards are capable of accommodating HRA practices especially with the growth of service sector in the Nigerian economy and the manner in which convergence and harmonization of accounting practice grow stronger by the day. Finally we recommend for domestication of HRA practice in Nigeria through legislation and ensuring complete participation of all stakeholders, also international accounting standard (38) on accounting for intangible assets shall be expanded to cover human resource or there should be a new standard developed to carter for HRA practice in Nigeria.

Keywords: Human Capital, Human Resource Accounting, Cross-national comparison and Investment Decision

Suggested Citation:

Kirfi, Mohammed Musa waziri and Abdullahi, Aminu, Human Capital Accounting: Assessing Possibilities for Domestication of Practice in Nigeria (september 10, 2012). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting www.iiste.org ISSN 2222-1697 (Paper) ISSN 2222-2847 (Online) Vol 3, No 10, 2012 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R L Brummet , E G Flamholtz , W C Pyle
Human resource measurement: A challenge for accountants
Accounting Review , p. 217 - 224 Posted: 1968-04
R L Brummet , E G Flamholtz , W C Pyle
Accounting for human resources
Michigan Business Review , p. 20 - 25 Posted: 1968-03
R L Brummet , E G Flamholtz , W C Pyle
Human Resource Accounting: A tool to increase managerial effectiveness
Management Accounting , p. 12 - 15 Posted: 1969-08
R L Brummet , E G Flamholtz , W C Pyle
Accounting for Human Resource Management
Michigan Business Review Posted: 1996-03-205
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,139
RANK
531,414
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Labor: Human Capital eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies