Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Control in Startups with High Growth Success in the Technology Sector: The Case of Netrivals

European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 2, 17-44

28 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2017

Maria Dolors Celma

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Tecnocampus

Marian Buil

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Tecnocampus

Josep Patau

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF) - Tecnocampus

Date Written: May 1, 2017

Abstract

The objective of this article is to analyse the use of financial and non-financial indicators by the NetRivals Company and its importance for the control of business management. Ultimately, it is intended to design a strategic map of the company together with a Balanced Scorecard (BSC) that serves to identify the critical success factors and Key Performance Indicators (KPI) that allow an optimal tracking and analysis of its functioning for decision making. An empirical methodology based on a case study is used. The descriptive analysis of an experience of implementing the BSC in an internet company will be used as well as an exploratory study that formulates the key factors of success and sectoral indicators of this type of companies which will be tested in later studies. Firstly, the study will be checked whether NetRivals has the key success factors and generic KPIs recorded in the four perspectives of BSC. Secondly, the specific key success factors and KPIs for NetRivals will be determined and its strategic map defined. Added value light will be shed on the key success factors and KPIs of companies that operate entirely on the Internet, and particularly SMEs with high growth in a highly competitive sector.

Keywords: Internet Companies, Balanced Scorecard, Key Success Factor, Key Performance Indicator

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Celma, Maria Dolors and Buil, Marian and Patau, Josep, Management Control in Startups with High Growth Success in the Technology Sector: The Case of Netrivals (May 1, 2017). European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 3, No. 2, 17-44, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
I Alvarez , J Benamou , J M Fernández-Bosch , C Solé
España cONecta. Cómo transforma Internet la economía española Posted: 2011
Amat Salas , O Hernández , J M Fontrodona , J Fontana , I
El cuadro de mando integral y el crecimiento empresarial Posted: 2001
E Ballarin , A Dávila
El Cuadro de Mando Integral Posted: 1999
A S Butler
Developing your company's new e-business
The Journal of Business Strategy , volume 21 , issue 6 , p. 38 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Frederic Marimon , Ivan Malbasic
A Simplified Balanced ‘Balanced Scorecard’
European Accounting and Management Review, Vol. 5, No. 2, 38-60, May 2019 · 23 Pages · Posted: 14 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 246
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,285
RANK
393,016
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies