Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Estimates: What Will the Future Bring?

Journal of Financial Perspectives, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2015

42 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2017

Paul de Beus

Ernst & Young, The Netherlands

Maarten Koning

Ernst & Young, The Netherlands

Date Written: March 30, 2015

Abstract

Under Solvency II, national competent authorities are requesting audit procedures to be performed on all supervisory reporting. Reports will contain more information based on projections of future cash flows. The level of assurance from the Solvency II external audit is expected to be similar to the opinion provided by auditors on financial statements, i.e., reasonable assurance. Current guidelines represent only minimum requirements. So, when is good, “good enough” for the external auditor? In this article, we suggest to analyze the (audit) findings on model outputs against a reasonable range. And in specific situations, this range can exceed the traditional “tolerable error” (TE). We translate the qualitative assessment of a reasonable range and make it quantifiable and objective. We will do so by defining a tolerable range based on sensitivities of inherent variability of underlying key risk drivers. This is needed because audit materiality and TE measures are mainly focusing on “errors” (or misstatements), and are often based on less substantiated and sophisticated approaches. However, when using model outputs in which key model design and parameter choices have to be made, and cash flows are projected long into the future, it is quite often not a question of simply being “right or wrong.”

Suggested Citation:

de Beus, Paul and Koning, Maarten, Auditing Estimates: What Will the Future Bring? (March 30, 2015). Journal of Financial Perspectives, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3081006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Results (* €1,000)
BOF will make a return in the best estimate assumption equal to the risk free return; hence a euro return of €1
BOF will increase with the release of the risk margin for the period between t=0 and t=1
Crossref
DVOC death benefits: €100,00 per individual
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
687,646
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies