Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Inappropriateness of the Bad Checks Penalty

Tax Notes, Vol. 157, No. 6, 2017

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 868

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 584

7 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017 Last revised: 8 Feb 2018

Douglas A. Kahn

University of Michigan Law School

Jeffrey H. Kahn

Harry M. Walborsky Professor, Florida State University College of Law; Associate Dean, Business Program

Date Written: November 6, 2017

Abstract

The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 provides many penalties for actions or failures to act on matters concerning the tax law. Section 6657 applies a penalty to a person who tenders an instrument to the IRS as a payment if the instrument is not duly paid. The penalty does not apply if the person tendered the instrument in good faith and with reasonable cause to believe that it would be duly paid. In this article, the authors argue that the penalty for sending a bad check to the IRS is excessive and that the reasonable cause exception should apply to any honest factual error.

Keywords: IRS, 6657, bad check, penalty

JEL Classification: H20, H24, H29

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Douglas A. and Kahn, Jeffrey H., The Inappropriateness of the Bad Checks Penalty (November 6, 2017). Tax Notes, Vol. 157, No. 6, 2017, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 868, U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper No. 584, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3082508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,435
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies