Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dual Residents: A Sur-Reply to Zelinsky

State Tax Notes, P. 269, January 15, 2018

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 18-4

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2018-01

7 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2018 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Ruth Mason

University of Virginia School of Law; Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Date Written: January 15, 2018

Abstract

In this article, we respond to Professor Zelinsky’s criticism of our arguments regarding the constitutionality of New York’s tax residence rule. We argue that the Supreme Court’s decision in Wynne requires reconsideration of the New York Court of Appeal’s decision in Tamagni.

Keywords: Constitutional law, state income taxation, dormant commerce clause, Comptroller of the Treasury v. Wynne, internal consistency test, subsidies, residence rules, double taxation, discriminatory taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H71, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S. and Mason, Ruth, Dual Residents: A Sur-Reply to Zelinsky (January 15, 2018). State Tax Notes, P. 269, January 15, 2018, U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 18-4, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2018-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3082430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,536
RANK
703,106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies