Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing the Implementation of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive

52 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2018 Last revised: 15 Oct 2018

Claire Jeffwitz

Frank Bold

Filip Gregor

Frank Bold

Date Written: November 28, 2017

Abstract

The paper analyses the implementation of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive in four European Member States: UK, Germany, France and Italy.

The first part reviews the main trends, key differences and potential difficulties or unexpected consequences of the Directive. The paper then explores in more detail key substantive elements of the Directive, and how these have been dealt with by each of the surveyed states. This section includes an overview of the scope and format, environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors to report on, the information to be provided, the notion of materiality, the verification process, the basis of reporting and the consequences of non-compliance. The paper also presents a comparative table and comprehensive analysis of the domestic transpositions of each of the four countries under review.

The Directive provides the first comprehensive framework for ESG reporting at the EU level but gives considerable leeway to Member states in the transposition process. Whilst generally the new EU-wide legislation has been a positive step, there are a number of gaps in the Directive itself, which have not been adequately addressed in the implementing legislation.

Keywords: non-financial reporting directive, ESG reporting, sustainability reporting, integrated reporting, European Commission, ESG, sustainable companies

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M48, M1, M00

Suggested Citation:

Jeffwitz, Claire and Gregor, Filip, Comparing the Implementation of the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive (November 28, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3083368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3083368
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
Directive
The adoption of the EU Non-Financial Directive in Germany
Directive, recital , issue 6
Crossref
Directive
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,728
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,400
RANK
23,367
8 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

European Public Law: EU eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies