Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Should Gifts Be Treated Under the Federal Income Tax?

Michigan State Law Review, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2017 Last revised: 19 Dec 2017

David Hasen

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: December 9, 2017

Abstract

No consensus exists regarding the proper income tax treatment of gifts. Some commentators believe the tax should fall on the donor only; others believe it should fall on the donee only; and still others believe it should fall on both the donor and the donee.

Although much of the disagreement appears to center on the proper definition of “income,” this essay argues that the problem lies elsewhere. There is no readily identifiable, correct definition of “income,” which means that most arguments tying the income tax treatment of gifts to the income concept tend to be definitional and, for that reason, circular. In fact, what motivates most theories about the proper income tax regime for gifts is a prior view about the nature and purpose of government coupled with a theory of how the tax system best promotes that view. Commentators debating the rules for the income taxation of gifts rarely argue explicitly about their prior views, however, and it is not clear whether, if they did, they would be able to resolve their differences. Accordingly, the debate over the proper income taxation of gifts is in some measure a pseudo-debate.

Problems with efforts to derive normative propositions about taxation from the definition of the tax base are not unique to the gift case; they extend to other debates as well. The analysis therefore has relevance to normative tax scholarship more generally.

Keywords: taxation, tax policy, federal income taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H24, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hasen, David, How Should Gifts Be Treated Under the Federal Income Tax? (December 9, 2017). Michigan State Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3085282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
478,514
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies