Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Alternative Approach to Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity

57 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2017 Last revised: 21 Oct 2020

Mary Hill

Kennesaw State University

Richard A. Price

University of Oklahoma

George W. Ruch

University of Denver - School of Accountancy

Date Written: May 26, 2020

Abstract

In response to a longstanding debate within the accounting profession on how to clearly distinguish liabilities from equity, we offer an alternative liability-equity classification scheme (the “Earned Capital Approach”) in which capital acquired in exchange for issuing claims (“external capital”) is classified as liabilities and capital acquired in exchange for providing goods and services (“earned capital”) is classified as equity. The Earned Capital Approach differs from the approach underlying current financial reporting standards in that it is based on a fundamental distinction between the firm and its claimants rather than a distinction between types of claimants (e.g., owners versus creditors). In this paper, we summarize the accounting profession’s ongoing attempts to distinguish liabilities from equity and discuss the conceptual underpinnings and financial reporting implications of the Earned Capital Approach.

Keywords: Liabilities Versus Equity, Financial Reporting, Capital Structure

Suggested Citation:

Hill, Mary and Price, Richard A. and Ruch, George W., An Alternative Approach to Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (May 26, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3086824 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3086824
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
H Almedia , V Fos , M Kronlund
The real effects of share repurchases
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 119 , issue 1 , p. 168 - 185 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Response to the FASB Discussion Memorandum "Distinguishing Between Liability and Equity instruments and Accounting for instruments with Characteristics of Both
American Accounting Association Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA FASC) , volume 7 , p. 105 - 113 Posted: 1993
American Accounting Association Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA FASC)
Comment Letter to the FASB: Liability and Equity. Accounting Horizons , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 307
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
331
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,274
RANK
208,171
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies