Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Idiosyncratic Risk and Asset Pricing

Advances in Economics, Business and Management Research, Volume 40, 2nd International Conference on Accounting, Management, and Economics (ICAME 2017)

21 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2017

Marselinus Asri

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Date Written: May 14, 2017

Abstract

The purpose of research is to investigate the accrual principles in Accounting that contained in the Company's Financial Statements. The accrual principle is reflected in the Balance Sheet and Income Statement. Accrual measurements in the Balance Sheet are measured using PersistenceCurrent Operating Accrual, Persistence Non-Current Operating Accrual. Idiosyncratic risk reflects the specific information about the company and it will fluctuate according to the information itself. To measure the idiosyncratic risk in this study five factors of Fama-French Model were used (Fama and French 2014). Asset Pricing Measurement uses the Dividend Discount Model to predict stock prices.

The samples used in this study are listed below. The Manufacturing Company is selected with consideration for accrual measurement of accounts receivable, inventory, investment, and liabilities. The sample was chosen by purposive random sampling method. The number of samples generated by this method is 145 companies with full reports for 2010-2015.

Using the SEM AMOS Ver.24 and Sobel Test-Path Analysis, the results show that Current Operating Accrual has a negative and significant relationship to the idiosyncratic risk and stock price. For non-current Operating Accrual, variables have a positive and significant relation. By using Sobel Test, the test result shows that idiosyncratic risk has mediation effect in Persistence Current Operating Accrual, Non-Current Operating Accrual relationship to stock price.

Keywords: Persistence Current Operating Accrual, Persistence Non-Current Operating, Idiosyncratic Volatility, Asset Pricing

Suggested Citation:

Asri, Marselinus, Idiosyncratic Risk and Asset Pricing (May 14, 2017). Advances in Economics, Business and Management Research, Volume 40, 2nd International Conference on Accounting, Management, and Economics (ICAME 2017) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3087834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
T Bali , N Cakici , X Yan , Z Zhang
Does Idiosyncratic Risk Really Matter?
The Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 2 , p. 905 - 929 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E Basilico
The Quality of Earnings , Governance and Future Stock Returns in Europe . An Empirical Study Posted: 2014
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings: An event-based approach
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 215 - 241 Posted: 1997
Crossref
L Berggrun , E Lizarzaburu , E Cardona
Idiosyncratic volatility and stock returns: Evidence from the MILA
Research in International Business and Finance , volume 37 , p. 422 - 434 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
RANK
505,351
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies