Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
General Anti-Avoidance Rules: Enactments from the World

Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 170/2017

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-01

104 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2017 Last revised: 22 Jan 2018

John Prebble KC

Victoria University of Wellington, Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Law; Institut für Österreichisches und Internationales Steuerrecht, Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien; University of Notre Dame Australia - School of Law

Date Written: December 14, 2017

Abstract

This paper sets out the text and translations of over sixty of the world’s general anti-avoidance rules. General anti-avoidance rules are found in taxation statutes. Known as “GAARs”, they are perhaps the most intractable of all statutory provisions, challenging alike to policy-makers, drafters, legislators, advisers, tax practitioners, and citizens. Nevertheless, during the present century they have become increasingly popular among the legislatures of the world. All GAARs have fundamentally the same purpose: to prevent or to render void attempts at tax avoidance. They operate similarly, by providing that despite compliance with tax or general rules, arrangements that have the purpose of avoidance are ineffective against the tax authorities. Despite this similarity of purpose there is a remarkable range of form. GAARs are often very long, sometimes very short. They approach their goal from different angles. The GAARs set out in this paper contain examples of all different approaches. The paper thus forms a foundational resource for comparative work on GAARS and for scholars and policy-makers tasked with evaluating different approaches to drafting or improving their countries’ GAARs.

Keywords: Tax law, Taxation, Tax avoidance, General anti-avoidance rules

JEL Classification: K00, K34

Suggested Citation:

Prebble KC, John, General Anti-Avoidance Rules: Enactments from the World (December 14, 2017). Victoria University of Wellington Legal Research Paper No. 170/2017, WU International Taxation Research Paper Series No. 2018-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3088222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
397
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,603
RANK
170,122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

WU International Taxation Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies