Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of the Sharing Economy in the European Union

Forthcoming, Cambridge Handbook of Law and Regulation of the Sharing Economy, Davidson, Infranca and Finck (eds.), CUP 2018

14 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2017

Katerina Pantazatou

Universite du Luxembourg

Date Written: December 20, 2017

Abstract

The chapter provides an overview of taxation in the EU and the taxation of the sharing economy in general. First, I turn to examine whether and if so, to what extent, secondary EU tax legislation applies in the sharing economy and how other areas of law, such as labour law, affect taxation. Following this, I briefly present some of the different initiatives of the Member States with regard to taxation of the sharing economy and the remaining challenges they face, including the potential applicability of state aid rules.

Keywords: taxation, sharing economy, gig economy, European Union

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Pantazatou, Katerina, Taxation of the Sharing Economy in the European Union (December 20, 2017). Forthcoming, Cambridge Handbook of Law and Regulation of the Sharing Economy, Davidson, Infranca and Finck (eds.), CUP 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3091281 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3091281
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
A European agenda for the collaborative economy
Communication from the Commission , volume 13 , p. 356 - 358 Posted: 2016
The 'rent a room scheme', for instance, allowed tax exemption for sharing economy participants earning up to GBP4 250 in a year for 2016. Similarly, France introduced recently a similar measure applying to specific cases
The UK has introduced such thresholds
See for instance the definition of the 'taxable person' for VAT purposes supra I.C.1
Load more
1 Citations
Maria J. Pouri , Lorenz M. Hilty
The Relevance of Digital Sharing Business Models for Sustainability
, p. 77 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
626
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,830
RANK
97,712
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies