Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Reporting Act, Cost Audit and Implications for the Cost Auditors’ Professional Accountancy Institute

The Cost and Management (Journal of the ICMAB, Dhaka; ISSN 1817-5090), Vol. 45, No. 6, November-December 2017, pp. 2-26

25 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2018

Swapan Kunar Bala

University of Dhaka

Date Written: November 1, 2017

Abstract

The paper has given an overview of the origin and objectives of the Financial Reporting Act 2015 (FRA) with an unofficial English version thereof. Then it highlights on the cost audit under the FRA, which is included in the statutory definition of “audit service” to be conducted by practicing cost and management accountant (CMA) after being enlisted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter V of the FRA. Thereafter, the paper broadly covers the legal provisions in the FRA on professional accountancy institutes (PAIs) with special focus on the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh (ICMAB) being one of the two PAIs and the cost auditors’ PAI. Accordingly, under the FRA, ICMAB has a number of responsibilities and obligations including taking punitive measure against the enlisted cost auditor for punishment by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC); ensuring the public interest-related oversight through taking effective measures in association with the FRC; giving consultation and assistance to the FRC for setting standards, making rules or regulations. There are also some implications of the FRA on ICMAB or its members or cost audit practice including ICMAB’s punishment to any of its members to disqualify him to be FRC’s Chairman or Executive Director; FRC’s Audit Practice Review Division’s observance of ICMAB’s activities regarding cost audit practice; cost audit practice to be unauthorized while ICMAB’s action under disposal on FRC’s enforcement recommendation; and enlisted cost auditor to intimate the FRC, ICMAB or concerned regulator about PIE’s inaction on severe irregularity within prescribed time. The paper concludes with an expectation that the cost audit would ultimately flourish with its full potential under the FRC’s oversight and enforcement regime due to its fundamental obligation is to develop the accounting as well as cost and management accounting profession.

Keywords: Financial Reporting Act, Cost audit, Cost auditor, Professional accountancy institute, ICMAB

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bala, Swapan Kunar, The Financial Reporting Act, Cost Audit and Implications for the Cost Auditors’ Professional Accountancy Institute (November 1, 2017). The Cost and Management (Journal of the ICMAB, Dhaka; ISSN 1817-5090), Vol. 45, No. 6, November-December 2017, pp. 2-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3097309
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
The , Management Issn
Posted: 2017
Gob
Dhaka: Bangladesh Government Press Posted: 2015-09
Gob
Dhaka: Bangladesh Government Press; initially published in the Bangladesh Gazette Extraordinary on Posted: 1977-11-14
Government of Pakistan). 1984. The Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLVII of 1984)
GOP Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,644
RANK
318,636
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies