Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Embracing the TBOR

157 Tax Notes 1281 (2017)

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-06

28 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2018 Last revised: 6 Mar 2018

Alice Abreu

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Richard Greenstein

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: January 9, 2018

Abstract

When Congress codified the Taxpayer Bill of Rights (the “TBOR”) in 2015 the tax bar largely shrugged, but that is a mistake. Section 7803(a)(3) is not just another iteration of the phrase Congress used to christen legislation designed to reign in perceived IRS abuses in the 80’s and 90’s, when Congress enacted three different pieces of legislation that bore the name “Taxpayer Bill of Rights.” Despite their lofty titles, none of those enactments contained a single amendment to the Internal Revenue Code that used the word “right,” or employed the language of rights. By contrast, section 7803(a)(3) actually refers to “taxpayer rights” and lists ten items. Therefore, despite the claims of its promoters that the 2015 legislation simply restates rights already provided by the Code, the codification of the TBOR has the power to transform the tax practice and the relationship between taxpayers and the IRS. In this Article we explain why.

Specifically, we make three arguments. First, construing the 2015 codification of the TBOR as a meaningless gesture ignores the well-established canon of statutory construction against surplusage, as well as its important corollary: when Congress amends a statute it intends to change something. Second, the TBOR significantly enhances taxpayers’ normative basis for demanding legal remedies for violations of their rights because it invokes procedural justice, using the language of rights where only government duties existed before. Third, the TBOR may have actually created taxpayer rights.

We do not argue that all taxpayer rights should be enforced either all the time or to the same extent, as that could be disruptive or even catastrophic for tax administration and may not be necessary to allow the TBOR to achieve its goals. But we do maintain that the codification of the TBOR can transform the legal environment so that demands for enforcement can be weighed by the courts on a case by case basis, in light of all the facts and circumstances, which include the identity and attributes of the taxpayer.

Recent events confirm the importance of the TBOR and suggest that the tide of taxpayer indifference has begun to turn. On November 8, 2017, Facebook filed a complaint against the IRS, citing the TBOR’s “right to appeal a decision of the Internal Revenue Service in an independent forum,” section 7803(a)(3)(E)), as the basis for its request that the court “[i]ssue an injunction or mandamus-like relief ordering Defendants to provide Facebook access to IRS Appeals.” We believe that Facebook is just the first of many taxpayers who will formally embrace the TBOR as a source of rights and as the basis for crafting remedies to enforce those rights.

Keywords: Tax, Taxpayer Rights, Bill of Rights, Taxpayer Bill of Rights, TBOR, Nina Olson, Performative, Expressive Function, Normative Basis for Enforcement, Rights, Facebook Litigation, Rights

JEL Classification: K34, K23, K41, K10,K20, K30, K40, K00

Suggested Citation:

Abreu, Alice and Greenstein, Richard, Embracing the TBOR (January 9, 2018). 157 Tax Notes 1281 (2017), Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-06, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3098853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
See Also Greenstein
The Action Bias in American Law: Internet Jurisdiction and the Triumph of Zippo Dot Com
80 Temple L. Rev , volume 21 Posted: 2007
Fitzgerald
Crossref
Id
See Generally Greenstein
Action Bias" supra note 133. 137 2013 annual report, supra note 24 , volume 1
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,813
RANK
340,955
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies