Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ordinary Voluntary Accounting Changes Due to a Business Combination: A Case Study

Rio de Janeiro Federal University Department of Accounting, Working Paper 2017

22 Pages Posted: 16 Jan 2018

Adolfo Silva

Rio de Janeiro Federal University (UFRJ)

Moacir Sancovschi

Rio de Janeiro Federal University

Cínthia Ferreira Amaral

Independent

Date Written: January 10, 2018

Abstract

This study analyzes the voluntary accounting changes due to a business combination in a critical case study of an unregulated public company after the IFRS adoption in Brazil. This research consists of the study of a single case. The qualitative analysis was based on the Positive Accounting Theory to show that in the company analyzed, there were no internal or external incentives for earnings management, and that the voluntary accounting changes were motivated by the concern of accountants and managers to report the results in a more appropriate way. The findings suggest that there is no evidence that the analyzed companies made any opportunistic accounting choices due to mergers and acquisitions, as is often suggested by the accounting literature on earnings management. Quite the contrary, the accounting choices observed may have been simply the result of the managers’ and accountants’ good intentions, even though there is no way to prove that they were efficient. This critical case study brings back an important part of the accounting literature which values the efforts of accounting professionals in judging how adequately accounting standards are applied in emerging economies. The paper presents evidence that the accounting changes made by companies are not necessarily explained by opportunistic factors, and eventually can contribute to increase company value, especially in an emerging economy context in which there is a significant degree of shareholder concentration.

Keywords: Accounting Changes, Earnings Management, Business Combinations, Mergers and Acquisitions, emerging economies

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Silva, Adolfo Henrique and Sancovschi, Moacir and Amaral, Cínthia, Ordinary Voluntary Accounting Changes Due to a Business Combination: A Case Study (January 10, 2018). Rio de Janeiro Federal University Department of Accounting, Working Paper 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3099416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3099416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R F Baumeister , E Brastslavsky , C Frinkenauer
Bad is stronger than good
Review of General Psychology , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 323 - 370 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Ball
Accounting informs investors and earnings management is rife: two questionable beliefs
Accounting Horizons , volume 27 , p. 847 - 853 Posted: 2013
Crossref
S F Cahan
The effect of antitrust investigations on discretionary accruals: a refined test of the political-cost hypothesis
The Accounting Review , volume 67 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 95 Posted: 1992
A Christie , J L Zimmerman
Efficient vs. opportunistic choice of accounting procedures
The Accounting Review , volume 69 , issue 4 , p. 539 - 567 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,130
RANK
576,212
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies