Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting the Adoption of E-Filing of Income Tax Returns in India: A Survey

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 46-66

Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Sumit Kumar Maji

University of Burdwan - Department of Commerce

Kalyan Pal

University of Burdwan

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

This paper evaluates the e-filing trends in India and also discusses the factors affecting the adoption of e-filing system and level of satisfaction among the e-filing system users in India. In the existing literature of behavioral science, there is an extensive use of the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) (Fishbein and Ajzen, 1975), Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) (Ajzen, 1985) and Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) (Davis et al., 1989) to explain the different factors affecting the human behavior and also with special reference to the factors influencing adoption of the e-filing system. This study also uses TPB and TAM for determining the different factors affecting the e-filing adoption in India. For this purpose, a structured questionnaire is framed to get the opinions of the e-filing system users. Primary data so collected are analyzed with the help of different statistical and econometric tools such as mean, standard deviation, principal component analysis, and multivariate probit analysis. The findings of the study suggest that the tax professionals surveyed are very much satisfied with the e-filing system and thus there is a positive behavioral intention towards the entire system. Such a positive intention and level of satisfaction is due to the perceived ease of operation, perceived utility, e-filing website service quality, social influence and cost-effectiveness. The results of the study also reveal that perceived risk associated with the e-filing system negatively affects the level of satisfaction and the behavioral intention of the e-filing system users.

Suggested Citation:

Maji, Sumit Kumar and Pal, Kalyan, Factors Affecting the Adoption of E-Filing of Income Tax Returns in India: A Survey (January 11, 2018). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 1, January 2017, pp. 46-66, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100051
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,523
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies