Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accouting Graduates Need to Learn How to Communicate Informally, with Empathy, Pertinence, and Clarity: A Practitioner’S Perspective

2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

26 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2018 Last revised: 15 Mar 2018

Richard Fontaine

Université du Québec à Montréal

Date Written: January 11, 2018

Abstract

In this paper, we have two objectives. Our first objective is to determine the important management accounting competencies for accounting graduates, from the perspective of accounting practitioners. Our second objective is to see if these competencies are covered in the Canadian Certified Professional Accounting (CPA) program.

We conducted in-depth interviews with 27 management accounting practitioners across Canada. Our findings suggest that accounting graduates need to communicate informally, in a one-to-one, or small group setting. In respect to our second objective, we find that these informal communication skills are not covered in the Canadian CPA accounting program, even though these skills are required according to the CPA competency map.

Keywords: management accounting, competencies, skills, communication, education

JEL Classification: M, I

Suggested Citation:

Fontaine, Richard, Management Accouting Graduates Need to Learn How to Communicate Informally, with Empathy, Pertinence, and Clarity: A Practitioner’S Perspective (January 11, 2018). 2018 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3100428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Gudrun John Baldvinsdottir , Hanne Burns , Robert Nörreklit , Scapens
The Image of Accountants: From Counters to Extreme Accountants Accounting
Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 22 , issue 6 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Beard , D Schwieger , K Surendran
Incorporating soft skills into accounting and MIS curricula
Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMIS CPR conference on Computer personnel research: The global information technology workforce , p. 179 - 185 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Jacob Birnberg
The Case for Post-Modern Management Accounting: Thinking Outside the Box
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G Cokins , J Cherian , P Schwer
Don't be stuck in the last century! It's time for management accountants to work with decision makers and give them the information they need to do their jobs
Strategic Finance , volume 97 , issue 4 , p. 26 - 34 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,076
RANK
467,335
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies