Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Configuring Blockchain Architectures for Transaction Information in Blockchain Consortiums: The Case of Accounting and Supply Chain Systems

20 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2018

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: September 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates alternative configurations of different blockchain architectures that can be used for gathering and processing transactions in a range of different settings, including accounting, auditing, supply chain and other types of transaction information. Although there has been substantial focus on the peer-to-peer and public versions of blockchain, this paper focuses primarily on cloud-based and private configuration versions of blockchains and investigates use configurations, advantages and limitations as firms bring blockchain-based market mechanisms into their organizations. In addition, this paper investigates some emerging issues associated with blockchain use in consortium settings. Finally, this paper relates some proposed uses of blockchain for transaction processing to other technologies, such as data warehouses and databases.

Keywords: Blockchain, Consortiums, Cloud Computing, Data Warehouses, Public-Private Data Models

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Configuring Blockchain Architectures for Transaction Information in Blockchain Consortiums: The Case of Accounting and Supply Chain Systems (September 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3102671 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3102671
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
D Aranda
Don't Believe All the Hype 2: The Limitations of the Bitcoin Blockchain Posted: 2017-04-10
J Berg , T Rietz
Prediction markets as decision support systems
Information Systems Frontiers , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 93 Posted: 2003-01
Bitcoin
How does Bitcoin work?
Www.bitcoin.com
Bitfury
On Blockchain Auditability Posted: 2016-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,953
RANK
82,662
7 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies