Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choice-of-Entity Decisions Under the New Tax Act

Law Notes, Forthcoming

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 550

8 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2018 Last revised: 29 May 2018

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: February 7, 2018

Abstract

This short article illustrates how the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act taxes $500,000 of ordinary income depending upon whether it is earned by a corporation, a passthrough as qualified business income (QBI), or a passthrough as income from a specified service trade or business (SSTB). The article shows that the effective tax rate on QBI, which qualifies for the 20% QBI deduction, will rival the effective tax rate on income earned and distributed by a corporation. Tax on income from an SSBT will be higher than the same income from a QBI, but, if the owner of the SSBT plans to withdraw most of the earnings from the SSTB, a passthrough entity will often provide a lower effective tax rate than a corporation. The choice between passthrough entity and corporation will be affected by the amount of income that the owner withdraws from the business and the amount of income the business generates. Lower-income SSTBs may qualify for the QBI deduction, reducing the effective tax rate on passthrough income, and enhancing the attractiveness of the passthrough entity. Conversely, the effective tax rate on passthrough income increases as business income moves into the millions of dollars, triggering the application of the highest marginal rates. The choice-of-entity preference for businesses with that level of income may move toward corporations, especially if the owners do not withdraw all of the business’s income.

Keywords: Qualified Business Income, Specified Service Trade or Business, Choice of Entity, Corporate Tax Rate

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Choice-of-Entity Decisions Under the New Tax Act (February 7, 2018). Law Notes, Forthcoming, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 550, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3119829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Bradley T. Borden
Income-Based Effective Tax Rates and Choice-of-Entity Considerations Under the 2017 Tax Act
Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 562 · 32 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 7 Sep 2021 · Downloads: 512
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
930
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,745
RANK
57,850
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies