Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementation of ABC System: A Case of a Center for Entrepreneurship

Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting. (Scopus) (Forthcoming)

Posted: 2 Mar 2018

Fethi Saidi

Qatar University, College of Business and Economics

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

The motivation to implement activity-based costing (ABC) in service and academia-oriented institutions are identical to other institutions; to assign indirect costs to products and services based on activities. This study presents and discusses the attempt to develop an ABC stimulation model applicable in an advisory and consultancy unit at Qatar University, the Center for Entrepreneurship (the Center). In order to determine the advantages and limitations of a costing system, both the traditional and ABC methods were compared to analyze and compute the operational costs of the Center that operate in four main activity centers, namely research, training, consultation, and incubation. The study relies on a qualitative research method, including data collected from both primary and secondary sources to accumulate data on the identified issues and then implementing these costing methods to the Center. Secondary data was collected by reviewing literature sources; whereas primary data was based on a survey conducted on approximately 30 staff members of the Center, in the form of close-ended questions. Thus, the findings of the study revealed that ABC is an appropriate and practical tool that allows the management of the Center to gain better insights on their cost elements and efficiently plan the usage of their resources.

Keywords: ABC, Activity-Based Costing, Center for Entrepreneurship, Traditional Costing, Cost Analysis, Qatar University

JEL Classification: M41; M1

Suggested Citation:

Saidi, Fethi, Implementation of ABC System: A Case of a Center for Entrepreneurship (September 1, 2018). Afro-Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting. (Scopus) (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127642
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
953
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies