Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Vistas in Cost-Benefit Analysis and Capital Budgeting to Perfect the IRR and NPV Estimates and to Resolve the Common Criticisms of Reinvestment and Multiple IRR

Presentation in the 55th Annual Meeting of the Academy of Economics and Finance, Houston, USA, February 15-17, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2018 Last revised: 20 Mar 2018

Kannapiran Arjunan

Independent

Date Written: February 26, 2018

Abstract

This paper introduces a new method, different from the discounted cash flow (DCF) method, for the first time, to estimate NPV and IRR. This method makes use of the capital amortization schedule (CAS). Accordingly, the present value (PV) of the final closing balance (CB) in a CAS, at a specific discount rate, is the NPV at that rate and the interest rate that makes the final CB zero is the IRR. The estimated NPV and IRR by CAS and DCF methods are perfectly matching in all cases of small or large-scale investments and under the financial and economic analysis of investments.

The advantages of the transparent CAS/MCAS methods include:

a. identification of reinvestment, if any, of intermediate income;

b. elimination of reinvestment, if there is any;

c. resolving the problems of multiple IRR and leading to a unique and real IRR; and

d. estimation of IRR on total capital.

A modified CAS (MCAS) method is introduced that eliminates the reinvestment income to get a unique IRR that resolves the problem of multiple IRR. When there is multiple IRR, the application of NPV rule without eliminating the reinvestment will be misleading. This analysis also helps to identify the appropriate criterion between IRR and NPV, as NPV indicates the unutilized NCF whereas IRR indicates the return on invested capital (ROIC) by fully utilizing the NCF.

The investors are comfortable to compare the IRR with the cost of capital in percentage term. As the modified IRR (MIRR) assumes reinvestment, MIRR might become redundant if there is no reinvestment (with NCF and some NNCF) and this is an incidental inference.

Keywords: New Vistas in CBA and Capital Budgeting, Perfecting the IRR and NPV Estimates, Resolving the Problems of Reinvestment and Multiple IRR

JEL Classification: C60, C63, D61, E22, E40, G3, G24, G31, H43, O2, O12, O16, O2

Suggested Citation:

Arjunan, Kannapiran, New Vistas in Cost-Benefit Analysis and Capital Budgeting to Perfect the IRR and NPV Estimates and to Resolve the Common Criticisms of Reinvestment and Multiple IRR (February 26, 2018). Presentation in the 55th Annual Meeting of the Academy of Economics and Finance, Houston, USA, February 15-17, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3130534 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3130534
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Kannapiran Arjunan
A New Method to Estimate NPV and IRR from the Capital Amortization Schedule and an Insight into Why NPV Is Not the Appropriate Criterion for Capital Investment Decision
Pages: 17 Posted: 19 Jan 2017 Last revised: 13 Dec 2022
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
A Resolution to the Multiple IRR Problem: A New Method (Modified Capital Amortization Schedule (MCAS) Method) That Eliminates Multiple IRR and Leads to a Real and Unique IRR
Pages: 24 Posted: 18 Jul 2017 Last revised: 28 Feb 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
Modified IRR (MIRR) Is a Spurious Criterion and Should Not Be Used in Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) and Investment Analysis
Forthcoming in the Journal of Economic and Finance Education Pages: 29 Posted: 3 Apr 2017 Last revised: 19 Apr 2025
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kannapiran Arjunan
IRR Performs Better than NPV: A Critical Analysis of Cases of Multiple IRR and Mutually Exclusive and Independent Investments
Revised and updated version as of 23 Aug, 2017 Pages: 31 Posted: 10 Feb 2017 Last revised: 14 Sep 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,357
RANK
449,075
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies