Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the 2017 Act's Tax Rate Changes on Choice of Entity

21 Fla. Tax Review Issue 2 Spring 2018

29 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2018 Last revised: 9 Oct 2019

James R. Repetti

Boston College - Law School

Date Written: March 5, 2018

Abstract

In an ideal world, the effective tax rates for C corporations and partnerships would be identical and tax rates would not play a role in selecting an entity for conducting a business. Unfortunately, the new statutory rates in the 2017 Tax Act and the 20% § 199A deduction have not leveled the playing field.

This article shows that the choice of an appropriate entity under the effective tax rates of the 2017 Tax Act is complex and is affected by whether an entity will retain and reinvest its earnings, by how long this retention will occur, by the availability of the § 199A deduction, by the applicability of the 3.8% Medicare surtax, and by the pre-tax rate of return on retained earnings. The article calculates the effective tax rates for various scenarios using these variables and shows that a partnership frequently has a lower effective tax rate than a C corporation if earnings are distributed annually.

The picture changes, however, if a C corporation will retain earnings. A C corporation that is a qualified small business (“QSB”) corporation under § 1202 will have a lower effective tax rate than a partnership if investors intend to sell their stock in lieu of having the corporation distribute its earnings. If a C corporation is not a QSB or investors do not wish to sell their stock, the C corporation will still have a lower effective tax rate if investors permit the corporation to retain earnings for sufficiently long periods. The article calculates the retention periods for various scenarios using the above variables and shows that a C corporation will have lower effective tax rates if it retains its earnings for 3.9 years to 30.1 years, depending on the circumstances. Investors may view such retention periods as too long, if they have short-term investment horizons.

The result is that the 2017 Tax Act has made it more difficult to predict which choice of entity will have the lowest effective tax rate in the long run. Tax planning has become more important, not less.

Keywords: Choice of entity, C corporation, partnership, tax rates, effective tax rates, qualified small business, 199A, 2017 Tax Act, tax policy, tax

Suggested Citation:

Repetti, James R., The Impact of the 2017 Act's Tax Rate Changes on Choice of Entity (March 5, 2018). 21 Fla. Tax Review Issue 2 Spring 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3134794
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Florida Tax Review , volume 21 , issue 2
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
970
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,373
RANK
54,617
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies