Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
For Better or for Worse? The Economic Consequences of Frequent Accounting Standard Changes

41 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2018

Melanie Demirtas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joerg R. Werner

Frankfurt School of Finance & Management - Accounting Department

Date Written: January 31, 2018

Abstract

This paper sheds light on the short-term capital-market effects of all changes or amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the period between 2005 and 2014. The dynamic nature of IFRS is an interesting, yet underexplored setting. Since 2005 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has adopted more than 100 changes to its accounting standards, claiming to improve transparency of financial reporting. We ask whether these standard changes are always for the better, or – at least sometimes – for the worse. Based on an international sample of more than 35,000 firm-year observations from 39 countries, we show that the IASB is generally compliant with its mission to increase the usefulness of financial reports for capital market participants. We however also show that positive capital market effects mainly arise when disclosure rules are changed whereas changing definition or measurement sections in accounting standards can also increase short-term opacity. Moreover, changing accounting standards may have adverse effects for firms closer to covenant violations. The paper contributes to the scarce literature on effects of (frequently) changing accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting, Standard Setting, Economic Consequences

JEL Classification: D61, G14, G15, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Demirtas, Melanie and Werner, Jörg Richard, For Better or for Worse? The Economic Consequences of Frequent Accounting Standard Changes (January 31, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3134789 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3134789
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,884
RANK
416,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies