Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Investments in Bitcoins and Other Virtual Currencies: International Trends and the Brazilian Approach

38 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2018 Last revised: 3 Jun 2018

Flavio Rubinstein

FGV DIREITO SP

Gustavo Gonçalves Vettori

University of São Paulo (USP); FGV Direito SP; Vettori, Rubinstein & Foz Advogados

Date Written: March 6, 2018

Abstract

This paper discusses international trends and current Brazilian regulatory and tax approaches to virtual currencies. It analyzes the main trends and challenges on regulation and taxation of virtual currencies identified internationally. It further analyzes the Brazilian approach to cryptocurrencies regulation and taxation, providing an outline of applicable tax rules and a perspective on how unregulated issues might be dealt with. Finally, it offers some conclusions on how Brazil currently fits current emerging international regulatory and tax framework for virtual currencies.

Keywords: virtual currency; bitcoin; digital curreny; cryptocurrency; tax; income; currency regulation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Rubinstein, Flavio and Vettori, Gustavo Gonçalves, Taxation of Investments in Bitcoins and Other Virtual Currencies: International Trends and the Brazilian Approach (March 6, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3135580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3135580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,298
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,928
RANK
35,967
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies