Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting Bankruptcy via Cross-Sectional Earnings Forecasts

46 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2018 Last revised: 8 Feb 2019

Dieter Hess

University of Cologne - Department of Corporate Finance; University of Cologne - Centre for Financial Research (CFR)

Martin Huettemann

University of Cologne - Cologne Graduate School in Management, Economics and Social Sciences

Date Written: February 2019

Abstract

We develop a model to predict bankruptcies, exploiting that negative book equity is a strong indicator of financial distress. Accordingly, our key predictor of bankruptcy is the probability that future losses will deplete a firm’s book equity. To calculate this probability, we use earnings forecasts and their standard deviations obtained from cross-sectional regression models in the spirit of Hou, van Dijk, and Zhang (2012). We add variables that we find to discriminate between bankrupt and non-bankrupt firms. As our model requires only accounting data, we can provide bankruptcy predictions for a wide range of firms, including firms that have no access to capital markets. In strictly out-of-sample tests, we show that our accounting model performs better than alternative corporate failure models that use only accounting information. If we additionally allow for stock market information, our approach also outperforms leading alternatives that require market data.

Keywords: bankruptcy prediction, negative book equity, mechanical earnings forecasts, financial distress

JEL Classification: G17, G33, M41, C25

Suggested Citation:

Hess, Dieter and Huettemann, Martin, Predicting Bankruptcy via Cross-Sectional Earnings Forecasts (February 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3136978 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3136978
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
3 Citations
Ivan Dwiputra Tarliman
The Corporate Scandal and the Probability of Bankruptcy : A Case Study of Mylan N.V
20 Pages · Posted: 31 May 2019 · Downloads: 111
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Hirofumi Nishi , S. Drew Peabody
The information content of stock prices after bankruptcy
Managerial Finance , volume 45 , issue 9 , p. 1166 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Martin Huettemann , Tobias Lorsbach
The Quality of Bankruptcy Data and its Impact on the Evaluation of Prediction Models: Creating and Testing a German Database
40 Pages · Posted: 13 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 5 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 379
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
512
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,964
RANK
126,012
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies