Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Drive an RV Through a Loophole: The Ethics and Legality of LLC Formation for Sales Tax Avoidance

Southern Law Journal 28(1), pp. 47-64

17 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2018

Chase Edwards

University of Louisiana at Lafayette - Department of Economics and Finance

Justin Ward

Jones Walker, LLP - Baton Rouge Office

Casey Carder

University of Arkansas at Little Rock - Department of Marketing and Advertising

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

The Louisiana Supreme Court addressed the issue of whether someone could form an out-of-state LLC for no other purpose than to avoid the sales tax imposed on the purchase of vehicles. Plaintiff Roger Thomas freely admitted that he incorporated Angel Rocks, LLC under the laws of the State of Montana exclusively to purchase a $351,800 RV and subsequently avoid the sales tax his home state would impose, which would amount to more than $30,000. At each level of assessment and appeal, the Louisiana Department of Revenue ruled that tax, penalties, and interest were due in the amount of $46,509.60. After exhausting his administrative remedies, Thomas appealed to the District Court for the Parishes of Livingston, St. Helena & Tangipahoa, which ruled in his favor, saying he owed no tax. Fearing a flood of Montana license plates on Louisiana’s roads, the Department of Revenue sought review from the First Circuit Court of Appeal and, finally, the Louisiana Supreme Court, both of which affirmed that Mr. Thomas owed no tax. The Louisiana Supreme Court stated that the Department of Revenue had not justified the piercing of the "corporate veil", no matter how thin. (Never mind that LLCs do not have "corporate veils".) In doing so, the 6-to-1 majority of Justices stated that the design of the state' tax code was done with numerous policy considerations in mind, and that "[their] function is to merely interpret the laws passed by the legislature, not to make laws." This article analyzes the pertinent areas of the tax code in light of the Supreme Court’s decision, proposes corrective legislation, and discuses whether, in the interim, all decision-makers with a fiduciary duty may be remiss if they do not follow the same scheme.

Keywords: LLC formation, tax avoidance, tax fraud, sales tax, business form choice, business organization, limited liability company, Montana, Louisiana

JEL Classification: H26, H2, H24, K11, K20, K34, M48, H71

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, Chase and Ward, Justin and Carder, Casey, How to Drive an RV Through a Loophole: The Ethics and Legality of LLC Formation for Sales Tax Avoidance (March 1, 2018). Southern Law Journal 28(1), pp. 47-64, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3138553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Thomas V Bridges
, p. 1008 - 1018
Crossref
Kirk Mitchell
RV Owners Who Registered in Montana Convicted for Tax Evasion, THE DENVER POST Posted: 2008-05-21
Id
Black&apos;s Law , Dictionary
Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
508
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,889
RANK
127,222
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies