Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation as Promise and Care: The Use of Accounting in the Entrepreneurial Economy

HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1255

43 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2018 Last revised: 23 Apr 2018

Jan Mouritsen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Operations Management

Dane Pflueger

HEC Paris

Date Written: March 14, 2018

Abstract

This is a study of analysts’ use of accounting information for valuation purposes in a venture capital setting. This setting is characterized in terms of the distinctive scouting and coaching work of venture capital funders, and the unproven and incomplete nature of the ventures and entrepreneurs, which seek funding to scale operations, pivot into new markets, internationalize, or undertake some other kind of fundamental change. Based on interviews with entrepreneurs (project-makers) and venture funders (analysts), a four phase model of valuation is proposed. The model illuminates that, in contrast with common assumptions in the existing literature, accounting is mobilized neither to reveal truth nor constitute knowledge about the objects of investment, but to promise and to care. This paper articulates these two concepts in the context of accounting. Promising is shown to be a means not to implement a predesigned business plan and a budgeted set of activities but to commit to a new and unclear future and agree high and sometimes unrealistic expectations. Caring is shown not to be a means to predict a final fate for the organization, but to give and take, interact and sometimes discipline in order to determine what is necessary to preserve and possible to change. Understanding that what is valued is not what exists but what is possible to create helps to resolve puzzles about accounting’s uncertain and ambiguous status and significance in the entrepreneurial economy. It also and more generally illustrates how accounting operates in relation to an unknowable object and future: not as a means to know or reveal but to write and rewrite a daring and ambitious narrative in which the protagonists (here the project-maker and venture) become something else (a manager and an organization).

Keywords: Analysts, Valuation, Qualitative Research, Venture Capital

Suggested Citation:

Mouritsen, Jan and Pflueger, Dane, Valuation as Promise and Care: The Use of Accounting in the Entrepreneurial Economy (March 14, 2018). HEC Paris Research Paper No. ACC-2018-1255, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140317 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3140317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
108 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management control systems in research and development organizations: the role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
Budget use, task uncertainty, system goal orientation and subunit performance: A test of the 'fit' hypothesis in not-for-profit hospitals
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
T M Amabile
How to kill creativity , volume 87 Posted: 1998
Crossref
R Amit , L Glosten , E Muller
Does venture capital foster the most promising entrepreneurial firms?
California Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 102 - 111 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,081
RANK
362,814
2 Citations
108 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

HEC Paris Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies