Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparing Tax Policy Responses for the Digitalising Economy: Fold or All-In

11 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2018

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: March 01, 2018

Abstract

This paper elaborates on the tax policy responses in the area of direct taxation that are currently on the table at both the OECD and EU levels. The digital economy cannot be seen in isolation from the rest of the economy; it is the overall economy that is becoming increasingly digitalised. As any ring-fencing of the digital parts of the economy would seem infeasible, the fact that all the tax reform initiatives contemplated seem to be pursuing that exact objective is rather anomalous. Such a move would seem to bring little to the table other than market distortions, inequities, arbitrary taxation, tax cascading, legal uncertainties, and red tape. When it comes to fixing the broken international tax framework, there seems to be no such thing as a readily available ‘quick fix’. So the real question on the table would seem to be whether we should instead consider breaking away from status quos in company taxation and proceeding to explore genuine and fundamental corporate tax reform.

Keywords: Company Taxation, Digital Economy, Base Erosion, Profit Shifting

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

de Wilde, Maarten Floris, Comparing Tax Policy Responses for the Digitalising Economy: Fold or All-In (March 01, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147820 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3147820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
P Made To , N Collin , Colin
Report to the Minister for the Economy and Finance, the Minister for Industrial Recovery, the Minister Delegate for the Budget and the Minister Delegate for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, Innovation and the Digital Economy
Task Force on Taxation of the Digital Economy Posted: 2013-01-28
The OECD already performed work on the challenges raised by digitalisation around the turn of the millennium; see OECD Committee on Fiscal Affairs, Clarification on the Application of the Permanent Establishment Definition in E-commerce: Changes to the
OECD, Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy, Action 1 -2015 Final Report , volume 5 Posted: 2000
The OECD already stated in its
OECD, Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digital Economy, Action 1 -2015 Final Report, supra n. 4 Posted: 2014-09
Oecd Oecd , Secretary
General Report to G20 Leaders Posted: 2017-07
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Johannes Becker , Joachim Englisch
Taxing Where Value is Created: What’s 'User Involvement' Got to Do With It?
21 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2018 · Downloads: 1,579
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maarten Floris de Wilde
On the OECD’s ‘Unified Approach’ As Frankenstein’s Monster and a Dented Shape Sorter
6 Pages · Posted: 19 Nov 2019 · Downloads: 182
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
361
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,807
RANK
189,166
2 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies