Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Chain Analysis and Strategic Alliance Under Total-Life-Cycle Costing: An Examination of New Costing Technology

The International Journal of Technology, Knowledge and Society 3(4): 63-68, 2007

Posted: 16 Apr 2018

Gang (Henry) Wu

Faculty of Business and Economics, University of Melbourne; The University of Melbourne

Date Written: January 1, 2007

Abstract

Due to competitive forces, deregulated economies and technological development, strategic alliances have become noteworthy in business. A kind of cooperative business activity without strict contract laws, strategic alliances have dramatically increased in the last decade. They have been considered as a critical way to manage activities, handle uncertainties, conduct financial and strategic planning, and make correct economic decisions. Coordination and optimization of activities within strategic alliances should be achieved by using a holistic view to organize strategic positioning and to build linkages between value-creating activities. A value chain analysis can guide firms to management interfirm linkages, to reduce internal and cross-organizational costs, and to build advantages of differentiation. With the aid of value chain analysis, firms will be able to integrate relevant relationships in the whole business cycle, to improve cost management systems (CMSs) and interfirm cost management, to facilitate information sharing, and to enhance performance across firm boundaries in the management of interfirm relationships. A structured costing approach and evaluation technique, Total-life-cycle costing (TLCC) completely addresses all cost elements in owning, maintaining, operation, and replacement related to products/services. Viewed in a value chain perspective, TLCC can be considered as a longitudinal method to recognize value relevant/irrelevant activities from the start to the end of products and services. TLCC can be used as both a cost management basis and an information-sharing technique to reduce (1) value irrelevant costs down the value chain of a product/service, and (2) value irrelevant interaction costs related to interfirm strategic alliance. This study is targeted at identifying the efficacy of value chain analysis in strategic alliances when firms adopt total-life-cycle costing on an interfirm basis. I am interested in identifying processes on the efficacy of value chain analysis in coordinating interdependent tasks, eliminating value irrelevant cost, and facilitating interfirm information sharing when TLCC is used.

Keywords: Value Chain Analysis, Strategic Alliances, Total-Life-Cycle Costing, Modern Costing Technology

JEL Classification: M10, M11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Gang (Henry) and Wu, Gang (Henry), Value Chain Analysis and Strategic Alliance Under Total-Life-Cycle Costing: An Examination of New Costing Technology (January 1, 2007). The International Journal of Technology, Knowledge and Society 3(4): 63-68, 2007 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147384
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies