Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost Drivers, Revenue Drivers, and Value Chain Analysis in Strategic Management Accounting

The International Journal of Knowledge, Culture and Change Management 9(2): 69-78, 2009

Posted: 16 Apr 2018 Last revised: 8 Aug 2018

Gang (Henry) Wu

Faculty of Business and Economics, University of Melbourne; The University of Melbourne

Date Written: January 1, 2009

Abstract

Strategic management accounting provides financial information and analysis regarding product markets, competitors’ costs, cost structures, and monitoring of firm strategy and competitor strategy (Bromwich, 1990). It assists the management team with better strategic decisions and organizational effectiveness by identifying, gathering, choosing and analyzing accounting data (Hoque, 2002). The role of accountants in strategic decision-making is crucial for the sustainability of corporate strategy, and accountants should consider the cost structure of both their own firm and competitors (including existing competitors and potential entrants). Moreover, instead of focusing on cost information only, accountants must adopt a holistic view of strategic information. Since many cost and other market characteristics of product attributes are intertwining, accountants need to incorporate all these characteristics into strategic management accounting consideration (Bromwich, 1990). In this paper, I empirically investigate the following two research questions. First, what are the essential dimensions of cost drivers and revenue drivers in strategic management accounting systems? Second, is the performance of strategic management accounting contingent on a balance between cost drivers and revenue drivers (including relevant costing, operating, R&D, and marketing activities) in value chain analysis?

Keywords: Cost Drivers, Revenue Drivers, Strategic Management Accounting

JEL Classification: M10, M11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Gang (Henry) and Wu, Gang (Henry), The Cost Drivers, Revenue Drivers, and Value Chain Analysis in Strategic Management Accounting (January 1, 2009). The International Journal of Knowledge, Culture and Change Management 9(2): 69-78, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147380
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,613
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies