Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Opening of the Stock Market of Angola and the Challenges for Companies at the Level of the Financial Reporting System and Corporate Governance

7th International RAIS Conference on Social Sciences

10 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2018

Armada Nunes Namuele

Universidade de Évora

Date Written: February 25, 2018

Abstract

This research aims to analyze the main requirements in terms of financial reporting and corporate governance mechanisms established by the Capital Market Commission (CMC) of Angola to companies operating on the capital market of Angola. Using a qualitative investigation approach, we conclude that, overall, Angola is providing itself with a legal framework that is in convergence with the major orientations of the international organizations, regarding the requirements made to entities operating in the capital market, in terms of governance and oversight of those corporations, of their financial reporting process. However, there is an urgent need for the CMC of Angola to orient or even advocate the mandatory adoption of the IASB’s international accounting standards for entities operating (or intending to operate) in the capital market of Angola. At the Corporate Governance level, we found a fair convergence of the principles and recommendations of the CMC regarding the OECD Corporate Governance principles.

Keywords: Corporate Governance, Financial Reporting, Capital Market, Angola

Suggested Citation:

Namuele, Armada Nunes, The Opening of the Stock Market of Angola and the Challenges for Companies at the Level of the Financial Reporting System and Corporate Governance (February 25, 2018). 7th International RAIS Conference on Social Sciences, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3152074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3152074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Alon , P D Dwyer
SEC' s acceptance of IFRS-based financial reporting: An examination based in institutional theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 48 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2016
Crossref
R Ball
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): pros and cons for investors
Accounting and Business Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Barroso
A Importância da Internacionalização das Normas Contabilísticas: Qual o impacto, em termos de transparência da informação contabilísticas, provocada pela adoção das normas IFRS em Angola
Master thesis in business administration Posted: 2014
L T Bom
Os Desafios do "Corporate Governance" em Angola
Comunicação apresentada na Conferência no âmbito das comemorações dos 15 anos da Multitel Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,314
RANK
687,646
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies