Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CRI-Leslie: Musings on Plain Meaning, Absurdity and Capital Gain

10 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2018

Jeffrey A. Galant

Meltzer, Lippe, Goldstein & Breitstone, LLP

Dana L. Mark

Kaye Scholer, LLP

Date Written: March 29, 2018

Abstract

CRI-Leslie, LLC v Commissioner is a noteworthy case of first impression involving the interpretation of Internal Revenue Code Section 1234A. In CRI-Leslie the U.S. Tax Court and the Eleventh Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals held against capital gain treatment for proceeds received as a result of the cancellation of a contract involving the sale of property. However, the greater importance of these decisions may be the illustration of the methodology used by the courts to interpret the Internal Revenue Code. Or, more to the point, whether the courts were justified in relying on the plain meaning rule rather than the legislative history in determining what Internal Revenue Code Section 1234A means.

Keywords: Plain Meaning, Plain Meaning Rule, Legislative Intent, Legislative Purpose, Absurdity Exception, Absurd Outcome, Ridiculous Outcome, Reasonable Outcome, Section 1234A, Section 1221, Section 1231, Section 1231 Property, Capital Asset, CRI-Leslie, Capital Gain Treatment, Ordinary Loss Treatment

Suggested Citation:

Galant, Jeffrey A. and Mark, Dana L., CRI-Leslie: Musings on Plain Meaning, Absurdity and Capital Gain (March 29, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3152387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3152387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
105
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,358
RANK
597,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies