Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of Fair Values and Depreciation in Buildings: New Applications for the Discounted Cash Flow Analysis in the Context of the Modified Model to Estimate Building Rental Multipiers

The Journal of Real Estate Management and Valuation (REMV), Vol. 24, Issue 3. October 2016

22 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2018

S. Smolyak

Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) - Central Economics and Mathematics Institute; The State University of Management

Date Written: March 20, 2018

Abstract

The findings from this Paper are applicable to such Plant, Property & Equipment (PP&E) accounting situations in which the value of land is assumed to be known, but the value of building erected on it (and, by implication, the value of overall property) needs be determined on the basis of known income arising from the overall property. As is well known, across most accounting regimes globally building is usually a depreciable element in the cost-based accounting model, while a fee-simple land element in the property is deemed perpetual and not subject to depreciation — necessitating a separate accounting treatment for both elements in the overall property. Given this context, this survey provides analytical framework and guidance to help accountants to do the following: 1) To determine the value of the building element for the initial recognition in the accounts of entities, without recourse to a meticulous buttom-up cost analysis (or unit costs) of substitution. 2) To justify the economically rational residual service life of the building element. 3) To establish the economically rational depreciation pattern for the building element (this is a new element of exploration in this particular modified version of the REMV Paper)

To achieve these objectives, this Paper uses a mathematical model formulated in continuous time and based on the well-known DCF analysis discounting principles, however, because the model is framed in continuous time its advantage is in that it allows for less burdensome forecast inputs (i.e. prospective financial information) than the conventional DCF format in discrete time. It uses the explicit assumptions for the rates of change as inputs, instead.

Keywords: G12, D46

Suggested Citation:

Smolyak, Sergey, Assessment of Fair Values and Depreciation in Buildings: New Applications for the Discounted Cash Flow Analysis in the Context of the Modified Model to Estimate Building Rental Multipiers (March 20, 2018). The Journal of Real Estate Management and Valuation (REMV), Vol. 24, Issue 3. October 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3153042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
A Baum
The Income approach to property valuation Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Sayce , J Smith , R Cooper , P Venmore-Roland
Real Estate Appraisal: From Value to Worth Posted: 2006
L A Leyfer
Generalized Inwood Model" / / in Voprosi Otsenki , volume 3 , p. 15 - 20 Posted: 2006
A V Strokov , D Strokova
Capitalization Rate and the Return on Investments
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Real Estate eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies