Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax 2018: Requiem for Ability to Pay

52 Loyola L.A. L. Rev. (2018) Forthcoming

Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-14

18 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2018 Last revised: 17 May 2018

Alice Abreu

Temple University - James E. Beasley School of Law

Date Written: April 2, 2018

Abstract

This is not just another tax reform piece. Although the tax system changed at midnight on New Year’s eve, 2017, in the flurry of activity to understand the new legislation and its effects, almost no attention has been paid to analyzing whether the income tax system has been transformed in any fundamental way. But transformed, it has been.

The new legislation, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, (or “TCJA”), transforms the income tax system in at least four fundamental ways, significantly undermining one of the bedrock principles of our tax system — horizontal equity — and ignoring ability to pay. First, the TCJA eliminates consideration of a taxpayer’s support obligations in determining the tax base, thereby creating a situation in which two taxpayers with wildly differing ability to pay will nevertheless face equal tax burdens. Second, it unmoors the zero bracket — the amount of income that will never be included in the tax base — from the poverty level so that taxpayers with income significantly below the poverty level may nevertheless face positive tax liabilities. Third, it creates a distinction between types of income from labor, reserving for employees the highest possible tax rate and making that rate dependent on the form in which personal services are rendered. Fourth, it rejects the principle of capital export neutrality, thereby creating a dramatic difference in the tax burden placed on income as a result of its source: henceforth, much foreign source income received by some U.S. persons, in the U.S., will not be subject to U.S. income tax, ever. And of all the changes, only the last was widely anticipated (at least in part), and long debated and analyzed by tax scholars and professionals prior to enactment.

Although some of the most important changes I discuss are set to expire or phase out after 2025, understanding their policy implications is important, not only because they are now the law but also because Congress may extend them, perhaps indefinitely. Before that happens, their policy implications should be thoroughly understood and debated.

Keywords: tax, tax reform, TCJA, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Ability to pay, horizontal equity, labor, alternative minimum tax, dependents, tax expenditures, territorial

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Abreu, Alice, Tax 2018: Requiem for Ability to Pay (April 2, 2018). 52 Loyola L.A. L. Rev. (2018) Forthcoming, Temple University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3154691
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Jobs Act
Posted: 2018-01-22
Irc § §
In this respect the TCJA reflects adoption of portions of both the Camp and Graetz proposals, including in the case of the latter, the expansion of the standard deduction
Tax Reform Act , volume 113 , p. 55 - 56 Posted: 2014-02-21
Michael J Graetz
100 Million Unnecessary Returns: A Simple, Fair, and Competitive Tax Plan for the United States Posted: 2008
Edward D Kleinbard
What's Government Good for? Fiscal Policy in an Age of Inequality, USC CLASS Research Papers Series No. CLASS18-2
USC Legal Studies Research Papers Series , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
229
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,612
RANK
304,992
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Temple University Beasley School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies