Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Summary Narrative of Chief Compliance Officer Liability

American University Business Law Review, Vol. 6, No. 2, 341

14 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2018 Last revised: 12 Jul 2018

Luke Trompeter

American University, Washington College of Law, Students

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The modern business environment is considered more complex and challenging than ever before. Businesses now rely heavily on their Chief Compliance Officers (“CCO”) to ensure their business practices adhere to the increasingly numerous laws and regulations that apply to their operations. The number of CCOs in major financial institutions has correspondingly doubled since 2005. This Article will summarize the principal laws, regulations, and jurisprudence that can confer personal liability for a CCO in the banking and finance industries. While the author has attempted to include a variety of industries to which such laws apply, this piece does not purport to be a complete examination of every possible law, regulation, rule, guideline, or edict imposed through enforcement applicable to all industries.

Keywords: COO, Chief Compliance Officers, business, regulation, enforcement

JEL Classification: business, law and economics, compliance, enforcement

Suggested Citation:

Trompeter, Luke, Summary Narrative of Chief Compliance Officer Liability (2017). American University Business Law Review, Vol. 6, No. 2, 341, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Id
§ 1818(b)
Id
Id
, volume 1818
Id
, volume 1818
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
784
RANK
653,956
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American University Washington College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies