Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why are Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs) Important to High Net Worth Individuals? The Role of Professional Associations

2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies

16 Pages Posted: 11 Apr 2018

Teju Somorin

Caleb University - College of Social and Management Sciences

Date Written: February 21, 2018

Abstract

In response to the trend of money launderers resort to the non financial sector to conceal their illicit and criminal incomes, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) released Standards on Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs)to require countries to improve their Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) measures on DNFBPs. FATF developed standards, commonly known as the Recommendations on Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing. The Standards include that DNFBPs be subject to AML/CTF regulations in order to prevent criminal activity. In February 2012, the FATF published revised recommendations which deal with risks relating to money laundering, terrorist financing, the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and others. The FATF Recommendations are recognised as the global anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terrorist financing (CFT) standard.

Therefore, quite a number of legislative frameworks to combat Money Laundering (ML) and Terrorist Financing (TF) have been developed in several countries around the world. Nigeria is not left out. Other countries include Canada, France, Spain, Mexico and Sweden even though their level of compliance as found out in a study by Omar, is still not comforting. It is therefore crucial for this paper to essentially address why Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs) are important to HNWIs and consider the roles of professional bodies.

Keywords: DNFBPs, HNWIs, and PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS

Suggested Citation:

Somorin, Teju, Why are Designated Non-Financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs) Important to High Net Worth Individuals? The Role of Professional Associations (February 21, 2018). 2nd High-Level Conference on High Net-Worth Individuals: The Challenge They Pose for Tax Administrations, FIUs and Law Enforcement Agencies, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3158743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3158743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
A year later, Banks enforced Know-Your Customer (KYC) Requirements for DNFBPs
Additional Know Your Customer Requirement in Respect of Designated Non-financial Businesses and Professions (DNFBPs)', mandates all financial institutions, prior to establishing business relationships with DNFIs, to obtain evidence of registration with SCUML , volume 1 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,860
RANK
198,930
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies