Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Centralized Review of Tax Regulations

70 Alabama Law Review 455 (2018)

63 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2018 Last revised: 5 Apr 2025

Clint Wallace

University of South Carolina School of Law

Date Written: July 15, 2018

Abstract

Centralized oversight of agency policymaking and spending by the President’s Office of Management and Budget is a hallmark of the modern administrative state. But tax regulations have almost never been subject to centralized review. The Trump administration recently proposed to require centralized review of tax regulations, but it is unclear what regulations would be subject to such review or how it would be conducted.

This Article examines the normative desirability of the longstanding approach of exempting tax regulations from centralized review, and the alternative of imposing such review. Scholars and policymakers have provided various incomplete justifications for excepting tax policy from centralized review, including concerns about politicizing tax administration, analytical challenges, and ossification. I conclude that none of the reasons offered in the past for a default rule of no review is sufficient in light of the potential normative benefits of centralized review. The analysis here brings to the fore multiple functions of tax regulations: some rules are focused on shaping private behavior, whereas others focus on raising revenue or implementing precise congressional directives. I make the case that centralized review can facilitate productive coordination with other parts of government, increase political accountability, and introduce analytical rigor through quantified analysis. This Article outlines the limitations of current centralized review conventions, and proposes some specific adjustments for tax regulations, including setting a threshold for review based on revenue estimates, and producing revenue estimates and distributional analysis as part of the regulation-drafting process.

The major tax legislation Congress enacted at the end of 2017 included numerous broad delegations. Thus, tax regulations will reshape the tax system significantly, and the Trump administration is poised to begin some version of centralized review of tax regulations, although many important issues remain unresolved. Recognizing the strengths and weaknesses of centralized review as applied to tax policy will help to establish consistent and productive oversight of the tax regulatory process.

Keywords: Tax, Tax Policy, Administrative Law, OIRA, OMB

JEL Classification: K34, K00

Suggested Citation:

Wallace, Clint, Centralized Review of Tax Regulations (July 15, 2018). 70 Alabama Law Review 455 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161157
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
Id
§ 6(b)(3), 3 C.F.R. § 647
Id
§ 6(b), 3 C.F.R. § § , p. 646 - 648
Sunstein
1841; see generally Freeman & Rossi, supra note 35 , p. 1174 - 1180
Sunstein
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,152
RANK
286,507
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies