Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Graduate Education and the Taxation of Tuition Reductions

158 Tax Notes 1187 (2018)

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-3

15 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2018

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: April 12, 2018

Abstract

While the legislation popularly (or unpopularly) known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was working its way through Congress, many colleges and universities were afraid that the repeal of Internal Revenue Code section 117(d), as provided in the House version of the bill, would have catastrophic effects on American graduate education. The concern was that, after repeal, graduate teaching and research assistants would be taxed on their tuition reductions, and the measure of the income would be determined using the stated tuition figure — the sticker price — for the academic institution. Section 117(d) survived, but it could come under challenge again and it’s worth considering what difference repeal would really make. This article concludes that repeal would have negatively affected few graduate students; the real effect would have been on undergraduate tuition reductions provided to faculty, staff, and dependents. In addition, the article questions the common assumption that, when a tuition reduction is taxable, income should be measured by the school’s sticker price. What should be taxed is value received, and a reasonable measure might be what the average student at the school is paying for tuition. In a world in which tuition “discounts” are the norm, that figure is going to be less, and often much less, than the sticker price.

Keywords: IRC section 117(d); IRC section 127; tuition waivers; tuition reductions; scholarships; deductibility of education expenses; working condition fringes

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., Graduate Education and the Taxation of Tuition Reductions (April 12, 2018). 158 Tax Notes 1187 (2018), Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2018-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3161762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,008
RANK
636,031
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies