Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Valuation: A Literature Review

Revista Empresarial Inter Metro / Inter Metro Business Journal Fall 2006 / Vol. 2 No. 2 / p. 39

20 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018

Jimmy G. Torrez

University of Puerto Rico

Mohammad Al-Jafari

Jordan Deposit Insurance Corporation (JODIC)

Ahmad Juma'h

University of Illinois at Springfield

Date Written: 2006

Abstract

This article discusses the ways and methods of corporate valuations that include the discounted cash flow models, the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and Arbitrage Pricing Models (APM), Tobin's q, sales accelerator and cash flow models of investment, and economic base performance measures such as Economic Rent and Excess Market Value. It seems that more innovated methods to detect changes in companies’ financial positions are needed. Also, managers’ financial experiences are essential for companies to compete in a world with a constant change.

Suggested Citation:

Torrez, Jimmy G. and Al-Jafari, Mohammad and Juma'h, Ahmad, Corporate Valuation: A Literature Review (2006). Revista Empresarial Inter Metro / Inter Metro Business Journal Fall 2006 / Vol. 2 No. 2 / p. 39, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3165643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
X Adsera , P Viñolas
FEVA: A Financial and Economic Approach to Valuation
Financial Analyst Journal , issue 2 Posted: 2003-03
Crossref
A Ali , P E Pope
The Incremental Information Content of Earnings, Funds Flow and Cash Flow: The UK Evidence
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 121 - 126 Posted: 1995
Crossref
A Ali
The Incremental Information Content of Earnings, Funds Flow and Cash Flow
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 32 , p. 61 - 74 Posted: 1994
Crossref
M Al-Jafari
Stock Market Valuation of Company Performance and Growth Potential: A Study of Value Creation and Investment Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,545
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,555
RANK
27,750
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies