Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the ‘Other Income’ Article within the Structure of Tax Treaties

Intertax, Volume 45, Issue 12, pp. 784-800

Posted: 24 Jul 2018

Carlo Garbarino

Bocconi University - Department of Law

Date Written: December 4, 2017

Abstract

Article 21 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital has seldom captured the attention of commentators, perhaps because of its elusive nature and yet Article 21 plays an important role within the system of the tax treaties. Indeed Article 21 has a simple structure as it consists of just an allocation rule (Article 21 § 1) together with a rule on the force of attraction on other income effectively connected to a permanent establishment (Article 21 § 2). Article 21 it also has two essential dimensions that attribute to it a central role in the structure of the Model: the ‘catch-all dimension’, and the ‘third-country dimension’. The ‘catch-all dimension’ is that Article 21 plays a residual role in respect of all the other classes of income regulated by tax treaties and focuses on income ‘other than’ that falling in other treaty rules (the so-called ‘other income’): by taxing the other income Article 21 fills gaps in the structure of the treaty but does not create new taxable situations. The ‘third-country dimension’ is that Article 21 is the only treaty rule that deals expressly with income sourced in third countries (i.e. countries that are neither the treaty residence-country (hereinafter ‘the RC’) nor the treaty source-country (hereinafter ‘the SC’). The combination of these two essential dimensions of Article 21 provides a matrix in which the analysis of Article 21 in this article is divided into two main parts: first, the analysis of other income ‘not dealt with by other articles of the treaty’, i.e. sourced in the SC (section 1); and second, the analysis of other income ‘from sources not expressly mentioned’, i.e. sourced in third countries (section 2).

Suggested Citation:

Garbarino, Carlo, The Role of the ‘Other Income’ Article within the Structure of Tax Treaties (December 4, 2017). Intertax, Volume 45, Issue 12, pp. 784-800, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3165501
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,919
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies