Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Personnel Salaries and Audit Quality

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-42

60 Pages Posted: 8 May 2018

Jeffrey L. Hoopes

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Kenneth J. Merkley

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business

Joseph Pacelli

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Joseph H. Schroeder

Indiana University - Kelley School of Business - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 2018

Abstract

This study examines the relation between audit personnel salaries and office-level audit quality. We measure audit personnel salaries at the associate, senior and manager ranks for Big 4 audit offices from 2004 to 2013 using unique individual auditor level data obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor. We find that offices that pay lower salaries have a higher percentage of clients that experience restatements. In related analyses, we also find lower levels of audit quality when audit employees are paid less relative to other lines of service in accounting firms (tax, consulting, etc.). Finally, we document positive and significant associations between salary and fees, suggesting that audit offices pass some of the cost of higher labor onto their clients. Overall, our findings provide important initial evidence on the role of audit salary and its relation to audit quality and audit fees.

Keywords: Audit Personnel Salary, Audit Quality, Salary Determinants, Audit Fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M51, M52

Suggested Citation:

Hoopes, Jeffrey L. and Merkley, Kenneth J. and Pacelli, Joseph and Schroeder, Joseph H., Audit Personnel Salaries and Audit Quality (March 2018). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming, Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 18-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3167538
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
G A Akerlof
Gift Exchange and Efficiency-Wage Theory: Four Views
The American Economic Review , volume 74 , issue 2 , p. 79 - 83 Posted: 1984
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The Fair Wage-Effort Hypothesis and Unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1986
Crossref
W S Albrecht , R J Sack
Accounting Education: Charting the Course Through a Perilous Future Posted: 2000
E D Almer , J L Higgs , K L Hooks
A Theoretical Framework of the Relationship between Public Accounting Firms and Their Auditors
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
248
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,424
RANK
109,017
2 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies