Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'Tax Cuts and Jobs Act' Impact on Deferred Taxes and the Valuation of an Entity

International Journal of Business and Applied Social Science (IJBASS), Vol. 4, Issue 4, April 2018

5 Pages Posted: 14 May 2018

Paul Schauer

Bowling Green State University - Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: May 1, 2018

Abstract

Financial analysts generally view deferred taxes as an accounting aberration that has little impact on the valuation of an entity. The headlines in financial publications that focus on the recent decrease in federal corporate income tax rates impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities and the resulting effect on net income changed that. This article provides an explanation of the origination of deferred taxes and their impact on the valuation of an entity.

Keywords: deferred tax asset, deferred tax liability, valuation

Suggested Citation:

Schauer, Paul, The 'Tax Cuts and Jobs Act' Impact on Deferred Taxes and the Valuation of an Entity (May 1, 2018). International Journal of Business and Applied Social Science (IJBASS), Vol. 4, Issue 4, April 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3171370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Arron Back
Citigroup Can Take This Hit. The Wall Street Journal
B14. Financial Accounting Standards Board. FASB Accounting Standards Codification Posted: 2018-01-16
C Rexrode
Citi Takes $22 Billion Tax-Law Hit. The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2018-01-17
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,278
RANK
623,124
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies