Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competency Requirements for Professional Accountants: Basis for Accounting Curriculum Enhancement

Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 7, Supplementary Issue 3

13 Pages Posted: 16 May 2018 Last revised: 1 Mar 2022

Henry Rufino

Tarlac State University

Rhene G. Payabyab

Tarlac State University

Grace T. Lim

Tarlac State University

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

The descriptive survey results showed that competency knowledge, skills and values were almost always used or applied by the professional accountants in their respective works regardless of operations and forms of the business, sector, number of years employed, and level of positions. Accounting and finance knowledge was considered vital in their work. On the other hand, general knowledge and information technology knowledge were occasionally or not often used in work. As to skills, intellectual, interpersonal and communication skills were almost always used by the professional accountants. Teamwork, analytical thinking and writing and oral communications were highlighted. Likewise, professional values, ethics and morals, were almost always observed and practiced in rendering accounting services to the clienteles. Professional accountants also participated in the different CPD activities to earn CPD units. Most of the activities participated were attending trainings, seminars and workshop particularly topics on current and recent issuances on accounting and financial reporting standards. Only few have participated or conducted self directed and or lifelong learning. Premised on these, recommendations were made to enhance accounting curriculum.

Keywords: professional accountants, accounting education, competency for accountants, knowledge, skills and values

Suggested Citation:

Rufino, Henry and Payabyab, Rhene G. and Lim, Grace T., Competency Requirements for Professional Accountants: Basis for Accounting Curriculum Enhancement (2017). Review of Integrative Business and Economics Research, Vol. 7, Supplementary Issue 3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3172508 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3172508
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Copyright
GMP Press and Printing , p. 2414 - 6722 Posted: 2018
Copyright
GMP Press and Printing , p. 2414 - 6722 Posted: 2018
Copyright
GMP Press and Printing , p. 2414 - 6722 Posted: 2018
Copyright
GMP Press and Printing , p. 2414 - 6722 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,959
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,653
RANK
19,247
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Pedagogy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies