Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overcoming the Special Interests that Have Ruined Our Tax Code

Excerpt from Adam J. Hoffer and Todd Nesbit, eds., For Your Own Good: Taxes, Paternalism, and Fiscal Discrimination in the Twenty-First Century. Arlington, VA: Mercatus Center at George Mason University, 2018.

30 Pages Posted: 7 May 2018

Matthew D. Mitchell

Fraser Institute; Mercatus Center at George Mason University

Date Written: January 3, 2018

Abstract

Federal, state and local tax policy is a mess. The 2,600 pages of the federal tax code are maddeningly complex and unnecessarily inefficient, but why? This chapter gives a detailed account of how the tax code got to where it is today, the role that special interests have played in creating a bloated tax code, and how we can make the tax code fair for all. Key takeaways: (1) Our tax code is a mess because it reflects the interests of groups looking for special tax treatment. (2) It’s imperative that we understand the history and origins of special interests’ influence on the tax code in order to clean up the mess.

Keywords: tax policy, taxation, tax subsidies, tax code, government favoritism, cronyism, special interests

JEL Classification: H2, H7, H71

Suggested Citation:

Mitchell, Matthew D., Overcoming the Special Interests that Have Ruined Our Tax Code (January 3, 2018). Excerpt from Adam J. Hoffer and Todd Nesbit, eds., For Your Own Good: Taxes, Paternalism, and Fiscal Discrimination in the Twenty-First Century. Arlington, VA: Mercatus Center at George Mason University, 2018., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3173846
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
111 References
Daron Acemoglu
Why Not a Po liti cal Coase Theorem? Social Conflict, Commitment, and Politics
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 620 - 52 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Raquel Meyer Alexander , Stephen W. Mazza , Susan Scholz
Measuring Rates of Return for Lobbying Expenditures: An Empirical Case Study of Tax Breaks for Multinational Corporations
Journal of Law and Politics, Vol. 25, No. 401, 2009 Pages: 36 Posted: 10 Apr 2009 Last revised: 19 Jun 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Gary M Anderson , K Charles , Robert D Rowley , Tollison
Rent Seeking and the Restriction of Human Exchange
Journal of Legal Studies , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 100 Posted: 1988
Crossref
Kenneth Arrow , Joseph
Social Choice and Individual Values Posted: 1951
Load more
1 Citations
Matthew D. Mitchell , Elise Amez Droz , Anna K. Parsons
Phasing Out Certificate-of-Need Laws: A Menu of Options
Mercatus Policy Brief · 13 Pages · Posted: 27 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 196
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,707
RANK
677,757
1 Citations
111 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies