Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Probing Substance Over Legal Form in Financial Statements

14 Pages Posted: 30 May 2018

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: May 16, 2018

Abstract

Substance over legal form is a principle which intends to guide preparers of the financial statements to report on what is actually on the ground and not hide behind technicalities of accounting standards or other legal provisions. This in a way is ideal as situations are not uniform amongst reporting entities and it therefore promotes disclosure of issues which matter most to each firm’s stakeholders. The International Financial Reporting Standards do not have specific accounting standard in that regard. It is therefore important that regulators must put appropriate measures to promote this principle.

The results of this study have shown that firms might not be willing to adopt substance over form where there is a room for creative accounting coupled with less interest on analysts and commentators in analysing and discussing possible wayward behaviours such as recurrent restatements of financial statements, deliberate use of wrong terminologies in the financial statements etc.

Keywords: substance, legal, form, financial, restatements, terminology

JEL Classification: G21, G34, K21, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Probing Substance Over Legal Form in Financial Statements (May 16, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179834 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3179834
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Shamsul Abdullah , Nahar , Nor Yusof , Zalina
Financial restatements and corporate governance among Malaysian listed companies
Mohamad. and Nor, Mohamad. Naimi. Mohamad , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 526 - 552 Posted: 2010
IFRS in Practice: IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Posted: 2014
Crossref
James E Byrne
Negotiation in Letter of Credit Practice and Law: The Evolution of the Doctrine
Texas International Law Journal , volume 42 , p. 561 - 596 Posted: 2007
Charles W Calomiris , Charles P Himmelberg , Paul Wachtel
Commercial paper, corporate finance and, the business cycle: microeconomic perspective
CarnegieRochester Conference Series on Public Policy , volume 42 , p. 230 - 250 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,012
RANK
260,475
7 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies