Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2017

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018

139 Pages Posted: 30 May 2018

Bruce A. McGovern

South Texas College of Law Houston

Cassady V. Brewer

Georgia State University - College of Law

Date Written: May 11, 2018

Abstract

These materials discuss as well as provide context to understand the significance of the most important judicial decisions and administrative rulings and regulations promulgated by the Service and Treasury during 2017. Amendments to the Code generally are not discussed except to the extent that they are of major significance, they have led to administrative rulings and regulations, or they have affected previously issued rulings and regulations otherwise covered by these materials. These materials focus primarily on topics of broad general interest – income tax accounting rules, determination of gross income, allowable deductions, treatment of capital gains and losses, corporate and partnership taxation, exempt organizations, and procedure and penalties. The materials deal summarily with qualified pension and profit sharing plans, and generally do not deal with international taxation or specialized industries, such as banking, insurance, and financial services.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Income taxation, Corporate taxation, Partnership taxation, Tax shelters, Tax procedure, Individual income taxation, Tax-exempt, Tax-exempt organizations

JEL Classification: A19, H20, H24, H25, H26, H50, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

McGovern, Bruce A. and Brewer, Cassady V., Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2017 (May 11, 2018). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180676
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
A F T
District Court of the Western District of Texas (Judge Yeakel) ruled upon cross-motions for summary judgment that the Service did not comply with the Administrative Procedure Act , volume 2 , p. 2017 - 5967
/14/16)). These regulations concern rules for allowing Service-contracted service providers to participate in the interview of a witness under oath. Commentators particularly objected to these rules where the Service hires outside attorneys to assist with taxpayer audits. Accordingly, the report provides that Treasury and the Service are considering a prospective amendment that would narrow the ability of the Service to engage outside attorneys, but still permit the Service to engage other subjectmatter experts such as economists, engineers, etc
Final Regulations under § 7602 on the Participation of a Person Described in § 6103(n) in a Summons Interview (T.D. 9778, 81 F.R. 45409
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
256
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,312
RANK
273,040
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies