Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
TAX LAW AND THE ERODING BUDGET PROCESS

81 LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS. 61 (2018)

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper

37 Pages Posted: 21 May 2018

Rebecca M. Kysar

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: May 18, 2018

Abstract

Increasingly, political pressures to enact tax legislation impact the budget process, with enduring consequences that sometimes reach beyond tax law. Most recently, partisan conflict over the 2017 tax legislation challenged fundamental aspects of the budget process — such as the length of budget windows, the construction of budget baselines, even the independence of the estimators — in order to fit the law through the requirements of the budget reconciliation process. Ultimately, lawmakers adhered to many of the budget process rules in a formal sense, which could be viewed as demonstrating the resiliency of the process. There is reason, however, to not be so optimistic. The budgetary disputes heavily shaped the contours of the legislation, exacerbating the tendency of lawmakers to disregard long-term fiscal concerns and contributing to revenue losses of $1.9 trillion in the new law’s first ten years. Additionally, the extent to which the 2017 tax legislation challenged the budget process likely has eroded important budget norms, casting doubt upon their staying power going forward. Over time, tax law has impacted budget policy by encouraging the ill-conceived use of reconciliation to ease the passage of revenue-losing legislation, while also creating pressure for Congress to unshackle itself from the budget process. This Article identifies points of instability in the budget process and offers suggestions for improving those areas in light of the new strains placed upon them.

Keywords: tax, tcja, budget process, byrd rule, reconciliation, tax reform

JEL Classification: K1, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kysar, Rebecca M., TAX LAW AND THE ERODING BUDGET PROCESS (May 18, 2018). 81 LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS. 61 (2018), Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3180995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
Krishnakumar
, p. 592 - 593
Gilmour
Id
, p. 108 - 109
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1980, Pub. L. No. 96-499, 94 Stat Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,118
RANK
388,855
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies