Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introduction to Blockchain for Accounting Students

31 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018 Last revised: 6 May 2020

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Jesus Calderon

Gravito

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 25, 2018

Abstract

Several studies have pointed to the transformative effects of blockchain on wide spectrum of industries, including banking and finance, as well as accounting/audit firms. The primary objective of this paper is to develop a hands-on tutorial for helping accounting and finance students understand blockchain technology and how it works. To achieve these learning objectives, we adopt the following scaffolding approach: We use a combination of blockchain definitions and narrative story-telling to introduce blockchain concepts and build a foundational knowledge that one should have to understand blockchain technology. We use R to introduce some of these building blocks (e.g., hash, proof-of-work, validation) and demonstrate how a blockchain works.

Keywords: Blockchain, R

JEL Classification: M15

Suggested Citation:

Stratopoulos, Theophanis C. and Calderon, Jesus, Introduction to Blockchain for Accounting Students (June 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3189518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3189518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Verify that the above proof of work (451) is correct? 8
Bob wants to transfer 500 to David. Is this a valid transaction/block? If yes, show the updated blockchain
Alice wants to transfer 700 to Eric. Is this a valid transaction/block? If yes, show the updated blockchain
This means that anyone can read (i.e., have a copy of the ledger) and verify/validate transactions (i.e., update the ledger). The main advantage of a permissionless blockchain is that it does not have a single point of failure. Individual participants (nodes) can drop out or re-join the network at any time. Therefore, 8 Using the function digest
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
907
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,410
RANK
21,990
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies