Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating the Profit Focused Organization Using Time-Driven Activity Based Costing

2008 EABR & TLC Conferences Proceedings

10 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Rifat Yilmaz

Bilecik Şeyh Edebali University

Date Written: June 5, 2008

Abstract

The competition conditions are increasing with globalization, economic developments and high customer expectations; complicate sustaining and increasing of market share of the firms in the sectors. Increasing importance of digitalization, human, information and effective management; being unavoidable of transformation, also make difficult to manage the change in the competitive environment. Therefore, the firms looking for solution for sustaining existence. To overcome these difficulties the firms; changing the working manner; from regular markets to irregular markets and from split product to composite product; shortly there is a big change towards perfect competition market. Furthermore, only production isn’t enough. Quality, speed, decreasing cost and productivity; constitute the bases of unconditional customer satisfaction and success. If we are looking the event for increasing the profit; because of price is set by the market dynamics in the perfect competition market, therefore there are two ways increasing the profits; productivity and cost reduction. Activity based costing is a method that developed for firms to reach true cost, more effectively making decision information. Since firstly developed, it supplied the firms reaching the true information, but because of difficulties of applying, just 50% of firms applied. Because of necessity of more practice tools, Time Driven Activity Based Costing is developed. TDABC simpler, lower cost, and more speed of applying. TDABC enable measuring and managing as sustainable of costs and profits of the firms; customer, product also many factors like orders at the bottom level, therefore allows more effectively managing the institutional performance. In these paper; at he competition conditions of today’s being accepted as a effective method for supplying highly importance true cost information; Time Driven Activity Based Costing that more useful forms of Activity Based Costing method; explained and exposed how to use as a tool for creating profit focused organization.

Keywords: Time Driven Activity Based Costing, Cost Management, Activity Based Costing

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Yilmaz, Rifat, Creating the Profit Focused Organization Using Time-Driven Activity Based Costing (June 5, 2008). 2008 EABR & TLC Conferences Proceedings, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3191228
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
W Bruggeman , K Moreels
Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing A New Paradigm in Cost Management
Bimac Newsletter Posted: 2003
Bruggeman Werner
Integrated Corporate Performance Management: linking Time-Driven ABC, the Balanced Scorecard and Budgeting to manage strategy as a continuous process Posted: 2007
Robin Cooper , David A. Bray , Michael I. Parzen
Who Wins in a Dynamic World: Theory of Constraints Vs. Activity-Based Costing?
North American Assoc. for Computational Social and Organizational Science (NAACSOS) Conference, June 2007 Pages: 6 Posted: 9 Feb 2007 Last revised: 21 Jan 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
O Elmacı , N Kurnaz
Sürdürülebilir Rekabet Gücüne Yönelik Vizyon Arayışlarında Faaliyet Tabanlı Maliyetleme Yaklaşımı
IV. Ulusal Üretim Araştırmaları Sempozyumu , p. 481 - 487 Posted: 2004-08-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
274
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,394
RANK
254,521
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies