Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Businesses and Accounting Skills: A Study on Entrepreneurs of Ahmedabad City

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 23-33

Posted: 21 Jun 2018

Himani Sardar

Independent; GLSIBA

Date Written: April 2017

Abstract

Entrepreneurs are agents and drivers of development in most economies of the world. Basically, more focus is laid on the entrepreneurial process of a firm rather than of individuals. Entrepreneurship leads to the development of new ideas, but old ideas are needed to create a balance. Accounting skill is found to be of great value in entrepreneurial performance, and as such, entrepreneurs are advised to embark on capacity building in accounting skill for financial management and record keeping. With reference to location of knowledge and structure of accounting policies, this research has been conducted to view the familiarity, awareness and usage of accounting information carried out by small entrepreneurs of Ahmedabad city. The basic objective of the study is to examine the status of familiarity and application of accounting. For this purpose, primary data was collected through a questionnaire comprising 12 questions. The 70 responses considered were tabulated and analyzed. Questions like information about different accounting methods, adoption of different methods, etc. were covered. It is found that more than 15% of the respondents are unaware of different kinds of accounting system, while about 25% are familiar with Desi-nama system. From the findings, it is concluded that awareness regarding accounting principles and methods is prevalent, but still entrepreneurs need accountants to help them with numbers as they lack the skill.

Suggested Citation:

Sardar, Himani and Sardar, Himani, Small Businesses and Accounting Skills: A Study on Entrepreneurs of Ahmedabad City (April 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 2, April 2017, pp. 23-33, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3192753
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
541
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies