Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Robotic Process Automation in Public Accounting

Accounting Horizons, 33 (4): 15-35

62 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2018 Last revised: 15 Jul 2020

Lauren Cooper

West Virginia University

Kip Holderness

West Virginia University

Trevor Sorensen

University of Wyoming - Department of Accounting

David A. Wood

Brigham Young University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

This study investigates the adoption and use of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) software—often referred to as bots—in the public accounting industry. Accounting firms use RPA software to automate the input, processing, and output of data across computer applications in order to streamline repetitive and mundane business processes. We conducted individual, semi-structured interviews with 14 accounting professionals including at least two RPA leaders at each of the Big 4 accounting firms to gain insights into how RPA software is currently being used. Interviewees note that bots are implemented in all areas of the firm but have gained the most traction in tax services, followed by advisory services and assurance services. Interviewees report that bot implementation has increased quality and resulted in stunning increases in efficiency—although bots are a nascent technology, firms report improved processing times by 70 to 80 percent and reductions of over one million human work hours in 2017. Although bots are more efficient, respondents report that bot implementation is not reducing headcount, but it is decreasing offshoring and increasing employees’ job satisfaction and upward career mobility. In addition, respondents provide perspective on skills that will be needed to succeed in an accounting profession that melds RPA and human judgments. This study is the first to identify and discuss the potential benefits, opportunities, and challenges to implementing RPA in the accounting profession and serves as a catalyst to spur future research in this area.

Keywords: Robotic Process Automation (RPA), Automation, Accounting Efficiency, Accounting Effectiveness, Hiring Decisions, Offshoring

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M42, M31

Suggested Citation:

Cooper, Lauren and Holderness, Darin Kip and Sorensen, Trevor and Wood, David A., Robotic Process Automation in Public Accounting (2019). Accounting Horizons, 33 (4): 15-35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3193222 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3193222
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
another year, it will be commonplace, and then I think it's going to peak. Then I think artificial intelligence will merge into what you think robotics are
Accenture
How to Avoid the Six Most Damaging Mistakes in Scaling Up Robotic Process Automation Posted: 2016
What is descriptive research? Available at Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Aguirre , A Rodriguez
Automation of a business process using robotic process automation (rpa): A case study
Applied Computer Sciences in Engineering Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
36 Citations
Gina Raluca Guse , Marian Dragos Mangiuc
Digital Transformation in Romanian Accounting Practice and Education: Impact and Perspectives
www.amfiteatrueconomic.ro , volume 24 , issue 59 , p. 252 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Chanyuan (Abigail) Zhang
Intelligent Process Automation in Audit
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 69 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Michael G Alles , Glen L. Gray
Will the Medium Become the Message? A Framework for Understanding the Coming Automation of the Audit Process
Journal of Information Systems , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 109 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Zhiguo Huang , Ling Qian , Shaoling Sun , Dunbo Cai , Tao Hang , Qingsong Feng
Design of Dynamic Cooperative Robot System for Financial Bill Recognition
, p. 44 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,813
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,112
RANK
4,526
36 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies