Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain Technology - An Exploratory Study on Its Applications

The Management Accountant, June 2018

5 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2018

Chandra Shekar M

Institute of Public Enterprise

Kumaran R

IDFC First Bank Ltd

R. K. Mishra

Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE)

Date Written: June 12, 2018

Abstract

The one thing that never changes is CHANGE itself...! We can see how the smartphone has changed our lifestyle. In the late 80’s and 90’s, we had to wait/ stand in a queue for a long time for calling a person. Gradually the cellphone came into our hands and now the smartphone. The entire world has shrunk into our palm. Same is the case with the internet evolution, Facebook etc., and now blockchain technology is on its way. It not only changed the way we use the internet but also revolutionized global economy. Though it is in initial stages of development, the kind of growth since its inception is massive. The question WHAT IF has more power because many great innovations have a start on this question. Likewise, this article speaks about “What if blockchain technology is used in the fair market value of accounting?” and this article speaks about the various applications of blockchain technology.

Keywords: Fair Market Value, Internet Evolution, Block Chain Technology, Innovations

Suggested Citation:

Mylaavaram, Chandra Shekar and R, Kumaran and Mishra, R. K., Blockchain Technology - An Exploratory Study on Its Applications (June 12, 2018). The Management Accountant, June 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3194522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,953
RANK
221,315
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies