Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Accounting Practices - A Case Study of Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited

The Management Accountant, April 2016

4 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2018 Last revised: 9 Apr 2019

Chandra Shekar M

Institute of Public Enterprise

R. K. Mishra

Institute of Public Enterprise (IPE)

Date Written: April 4, 2016

Abstract

The 21st century is also called by some as a global village, where countries across the world are connected for business operations across vast distances. India is no exception, and it is evident, since many Indian companies are listed in US and UK financial markets. This listing results in the expansion of global business operations to and creates value. Some renowned Indian companies from information technology, pharmaceuticals, auto industry and banking sector are listed in global capital markets to attract investments from Foreign Institutional Investors. This is also to provide goods and services to the customers across the globe. Such companies strictly follow statutory regulatory requirements of the respective nations. It is done by adopting global accounting standards to disclose financial reports to the stakeholders. The set of companies performing businesses in domestic and foreign markets, are incurring huge expenditure, and are also taking a lot of time for preparing ‘accounting books’ using different GAAPs (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) to different investors i.e. local & global. These differences in accounting procedures confuse the investors for a proper understanding of the language of the business.

Keywords: Global Business Operations, Foreign Institutional Investors, GAAP

Suggested Citation:

Mylaavaram, Chandra Shekar and Mishra, R. K., Global Accounting Practices - A Case Study of Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited (April 4, 2016). The Management Accountant, April 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3195749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3195749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,267
RANK
677,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies