Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interaction of the Foreign Affiliate Surplus and Safe-Income Regimes: Selected Anomalies, Issues, and Planning Considerations

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 2, 2018

40 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2018

Jim Samuel

Independent

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

In the 2015 budget, the Canadian government introduced sweeping amendments to section 55 of the Income Tax Act. These amendments include two new purpose tests that apply in determining whether subsection 55(2) applies to recharacterize an otherwise "tax-free" intercorporate dividend paid between two Canadian-resident corporations as a capital gain that is subject to tax. Given the broad scope of, and the uncertainty arising from, these new purpose tests, it will now likely be more common for corporations to, where possible, rely on the safe-income exception. These circumstances could include, for example, the payment of an intercompany dividend by a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary to its parent company. Furthermore, if that subsidiary owns, directly or indirectly, one or more foreign affiliates, it is possible that all or a portion of the surplus pools of one or more of those affiliates could, in certain circumstances, form an integral part of a safe-income calculation. This article provides a comparison of the fundamental aspects of these two regimes, with a particular focus on some of the more commonly encountered anomalies, issues, and planning considerations that can arise in the context of their interaction. The analysis presented by the author shows that, although the two regimes have a similar computational objective, the interplay between them can at times be uneasy and can give rise to unexpected results.

Keywords: Foreign affiliates, surplus, safe income, dividends, amendments, surplus stripping

Suggested Citation:

Samuel, Jim, Interaction of the Foreign Affiliate Surplus and Safe-Income Regimes: Selected Anomalies, Issues, and Planning Considerations (May 31, 2018). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue Fiscale Canadienne, Vol. 66, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3195502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,444
RANK
222,076
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies