Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposing a Single, Simpler Test for Cash Equivalency

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018

44 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2018

Fred B. Brown

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: June 19, 2018

Abstract

Under the cash method of accounting, generally taxpayers include income items that are received in the form of cash, checks, and property, in the year in which they are received. Under the cash equivalency doctrine, a promise to pay an amount in the future, even though it is a property right, generally will be included upon receipt only if the promise to pay constitutes a cash equivalent.

Whether an obligation is a cash equivalent is generally determined based on common law standards developed by the courts with some assistance from the Service. As a consequence, the current approach to cash equivalency suffers from the lack of a uniform standard. There is also uncertainty in applying the particular tests, given the fact-intensive, imprecise inquiry that is required. In addition, the current standards for cash equivalency may also present liquidity difficulties for taxpayers.

To address these problems, this article proposes a single test for determining whether an obligation calling for future payments is a cash equivalent. The proposed test would generally define a cash equivalent as an obligation that is readily tradable in an established securities market. By avoiding the aforementioned problems, the proposed test would promote the simplicity and liquidity policies that underlie the cash method of accounting. The proposed test would also create consistency with the results under the installment method of reporting when a taxpayer receives a deferred-payment obligation on the sale of property. To prevent possible abuses, the article also considers the adoption of certain measures that apply in connection with the installment method.

Keywords: tax, tax accounting, cash method, cash equivalency

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Brown, Fred B., Proposing a Single, Simpler Test for Cash Equivalency (June 19, 2018). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 71, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3199226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Consequently, the adoption of the proposed definition for cash equivalency would replace one-off common law standards with a dependable test that is widely used under the Code, helping to streamline and simplify the tax law , volume 224
See supra notes 190-191 and accompanying text
See supra notes 179-180 and accompanying text
I R C 280g
A)(ii)(I)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,524
RANK
703,106
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies