Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuing Snap After the IPO Quiet Period (A)

HBS Case No. 218-095

Posted: 12 Jul 2018

Marco Di Maggio

Imperial College Business School; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Benjamin Esty

Harvard Business School

Greg Saldutte

Harvard University - Business School (HBS)

Date Written: June 5, 2018

Abstract

Snap, the disappearing message app, went public at $17 per share on March 2, 2017, making its two 20-something founders the youngest self-made billionaires in the country. Over the next three weeks, 14 analysts make investment recommendations on Snap: two with buy recommendations, six with holds, and six with sells. When the “IPO quiet period” expired three weeks later, 16 more analysts — who worked at firms that served as underwriter for the Snap IPO — issued recommendations: 10 with buy and six with hold recommendations, with price targets ranging from $21 to $31 compared to a current market price of $23. Elizabeth Kemp, the portfolio managers of a long-only, technology fund at Sand Hill Road Capital, had bought 500,000 shares at the IPO and had to decide whether to harvest her gain or to double down and buy more shares.

This short (4 pages of text) case analyzes the first of three sequential analyst reports from Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley’s internet analyst. The case series analyzes a unique natural experiment that plays out across the analyst reports, and is designed to accomplish four goals. First, to teach DCF valuation and illustrate the challenges of valuing young, rapidly growing technology firms. Second, to highlight the differences between affiliated and unaffiliated analysts — are the ones affiliated with the firms that underwrote the IPO more informed or more conflicted? Third, to illustrate how valuation is done in practice and raise questions about the methods (e.g., are DCF models used to establish price targets or to justify them). And fourth, to provide a forum in which to discuss IPO anomalies related to initial pricing and long-run performance.

Keywords: Initial Public Offering (IPO), Quiet Period, Sell-Side Analysts, Underwriters, Investment Banking, Affiliation Bias, Equity Research, Social Networks, Internet Companies, Discounted Cash Flow (DCF), Cost of Capital, Valuation, Conflicts of Interest, Corporate Governance, Online Advertising, Forecast

JEL Classification: G24, G32

Suggested Citation:

Di Maggio, Marco and Esty, Benjamin C. and Saldutte, Greg, Valuing Snap After the IPO Quiet Period (A) (June 5, 2018). HBS Case No. 218-095, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3199824
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,134
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies