Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Complexity in Simplifying Accounting Standards: The Case of ASU 2016-09

16 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2018

James Jianxin Gong

California State University at Fullerton

Date Written: June 21, 2018

Abstract

The current standard for accounting for stock-based compensation to employees and executives has proved to be increasingly complex. This results in accounting information less relevant and useful. To address this issue, the accounting standard setting body, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2016-09. The new standard aims to simplify the accounting standards on stock based compensation. It changes the way that companies recognize tax benefits arising from gains employees realize from exercising stock option. Using a random sample of 48 software companies, this study examines the impact of the ASU on a company’s reported net income, effective tax rate, operating cash flow, and owner’s equity. Empirical evidence suggests that the accounting standard change has varying effects on companies’ financial performance measures in the same industry. It remains unclear whether the accounting standard has the intended effects of improving usefulness of accounting information.

Keywords: Accounting Standards, Stock-based Compensation, Economic Consequences

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Gong, Jianxin, Complexity in Simplifying Accounting Standards: The Case of ASU 2016-09 (June 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3200769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3200769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
The improvements in usefulness of accounting information are hard to assess when disclosure of the impacts of new accounting standards are sparse or less transparent. It also created ethical challenge for managers as they may attempt to abuse stock-based compensation to inflate net income and ratios
ASU 2016-09 imposes uncertainty and risk as many investors and stakeholders do not have the competency to understand complicated financial statements and footnotes
Bdo Bibliography
FASB Simplifies Aspects of Accounting for Stock Compensation Posted: 2016-04
D Beresford
It's Time To Simplify Accounting Standards
Journal of Accountancy Posted: 1999
Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 Compensation-Stock Compensation
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Posted: 2016-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,346
RANK
481,321
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies