Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Implementing and Cascading the Balanced Scorecard: The Case of a Danish Hospital

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 2, 2018

14 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2018

Mohsen Souissi

Fayetteville State University - School of Business and Economics

Kazunori Ito

Senshu University

Date Written: June 26, 2018

Abstract

Hospitals are facing tremendous challenges that are straining their limited resources. In order to cope with these formidable pressures, health care organizations around the world are looking for ways to be both efficient and effective in delivering their services while eyeing their strategic long-term goals. In this case study, we will focus on how, in its quest for cost effectiveness, a Danish hospital implemented the balanced scorecard to drive its strategy and cascade its strategic goals down to its operating units.

Keywords: balanced scorecard, cascading

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Souissi, Mohsen and Ito, Kazunori, Implementing and Cascading the Balanced Scorecard: The Case of a Danish Hospital (June 26, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
G K Debusk , A Debusk
Combining Hoshin Planning with the Balanced Scorecard to Achieve Breakthrough Results
Balanced Scorecard Report , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 7 - 10 Posted: 2011
B S Donlon
Building a Cascading Program
Balanced Scorecard Report , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 11 - 13 Posted: 2003
N Kaplan , R S Bower , M
Applying the Balanced Scorecard in Healthcare Provider Organizations
Journal of Healthcare Management , volume 47 , issue 3 , p. 179 - 195 Posted: 2002
R S Kaplan , D P Norton
Translating Strategy into Action: the Balanced Scorecard Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
318
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,610
RANK
217,471
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies