Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Big Data and Knowledge Management with Applications in Accounting and Auditing: The Case of Watson

24 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2018

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: June 27, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to investigate big data and knowledge management in the context of so-called cognitive systems, with a particular focus on IBM’s Watson as a case to illustrate both an emerging form of knowledge management and how firms are analyzing big data to generate knowledge from data. This analysis includes a number of applications that have been developed to address a number of accounting and auditing problems. In particular, this paper analyzes how Watson has been brought into business settings and used or proposed for use in accounting, auditing and finance.

Keywords: Watson, Cognitive Systems, Knowledge Management, Accounting, Auditing, Cognitive Systems

JEL Classification: P40, L00

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Big Data and Knowledge Management with Applications in Accounting and Auditing: The Case of Watson (June 27, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3203842 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3203842
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
H Agnew
Auditing: Pitch Battle
Financial Times Posted: 2009
IBM's Watson leaves humans in dust on Posted: 2011
T Austin
The Disruptive Era of Smart Machines Is Upon Us Posted: 2013-09
T Austin , B Blau , K Mcgee , S Prentice , A Ghubril
The New Accountant -We're Not Bean Counters Anymore
21 November Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Nagat Mohamed Marie Younis
Global Approaches to Sustainability Through Learning and Education
, p. 46 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
841
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,805
RANK
66,501
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies