Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Leases

Posted: 27 Jul 2018

Evelyn Kwanti

Independent

Date Written: July 7, 2018

Abstract

As you will learn in this chapter, due to lease accounting rules, users of financial statements must make an educated guess on the real-but-hidden leverage of leasing only by using the information disclosed in the notes and by applying a rule-of-thumb multiple. As the chairperson for the IASB noted, “It seems odd to expect an analyst to guess the liabilities associated with leases when management already has this information at its fingertips.” This concern explains why the FASB and IASB have worked on a new standard on leasing, so that assets and liabilities avoid on-balance-sheet treatment simply by calling a loan a “lease.”

Keywords: Acounting for Leases, Finance Leasing, Operate Leasing

Suggested Citation:

Kwanti, Evelyn, Accounting for Leases (July 7, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209793
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
931
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies