Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Farms in India: An Analysis in the Context of Recognition, Measurement and Presentation of Financial Data

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 3, July 2017, 34-53

Posted: 4 Aug 2018

Haripriya Dutta

Tezpur University

Debabrata Das

Independent

Date Written: July 2017

Abstract

The farm accounting practice in India is said to be in its infant stage. This paper seeks to examine the rationale for a full-fledged farm accounting practice in the country. Literature reveals a strong relationship between the degrees of commercialization with that of the adoption of accounting practices. Therefore, the study attempts to examine the commercial traits in Indian farms, which genuinely envisage such practices in the sector. Thereafter, the existing practices of accounting in India are discussed by underscoring the measurement and valuation techniques of different farm account heads. Lastly, the study tries to draw attention to certain lacunas in the existing system. These are drawn using the authors’ own observations, supported by past research. As outcomes of the study, a considerable commercial appeal is seen in the Indian farm sector. Certain farm accounts heads and their respective treatments are provided to explore the existing system of farm accounting in the country. The drawbacks of present practice are found in terms of recognition, measurement and presentation of financial data.

Suggested Citation:

Dutta, Haripriya and Das, Debabrata, Accounting for Farms in India: An Analysis in the Context of Recognition, Measurement and Presentation of Financial Data (July 2017). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XVI, No. 3, July 2017, 34-53, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3214385
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Domestic Development Strategies eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies