Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Insider Control

60 William & Mary L. Rev. 891 (2019)

45 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018 Last revised: 31 Mar 2019

Benjamin Means

University of South Carolina School of Law

Date Written: July 19, 2018

Abstract

According to conventional wisdom, insider control of businesses is detrimental to the interests of non-controlling investors. Family-run businesses, in particular, are seen as nepotistic and inefficient. Yet, commentators have overestimated the dangers of insider control and overlooked its potential benefits for all stakeholders. Controlling owners have a personal stake that gives them reason to identify with their business and to adopt responsible business practices capable of creating lasting value. A stewardship model of insider control helps explain the continuing vitality of family businesses as well as the success of recent public offerings by Facebook, Google, and Snapchat involving low-vote or no-vote stock. Consequently, this Article criticizes efforts to limit insider control categorically — for example, recent moves by stock exchanges to block companies that issue stock with unequal voting rights. To the extent controlling shareholders are tempted to abuse their control in particular cases, this Article contends that the fiduciary duties of care and loyalty provide an appropriate basis for judicial monitoring.

Keywords: insider control, family business, dual-stock, stewardship

Suggested Citation:

Means, Benjamin, The Value of Insider Control (July 19, 2018). 60 William & Mary L. Rev. 891 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3216762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
generation administers the firm without further innovations; and the third generation concentrates on interests other than those of the founder, including cutting corners, self-indulgent luxurious living, and the fortune is thus dissipated , volume 955 , p. 958 - 59
Miller
supra note 161, at 52 (describing this view as the "stagnation perspective"). 203. Id. 204. The continued existence of family-controlled companies does not rebut the argument
See generally Sjögren, supra note 128, at 112 (including a discussion of "emerging dynasties"). As a consequence, familycontrolled companies could represent a significant percentage of the overall economy whether or not individual companies survive multiple generations of ownership. See Means, supra note 12
After all, new ventures will arise to replace those that fail
use that amount of care which ordinarily careful and prudent men would use in similar circumstances
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
538,270
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies