Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy, Process and Control: Theorizing the Integration of Functional Strategy and Performance Measures

29 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2018

Saad Hossain

University of Guelph - College of Business and Economics

Kalinga Jagoda

University of Guelph

Date Written: April 20, 2018

Abstract

Due to increasing significance of business model innovation and ongoing difficulties encountered in implementing formally developed strategies, there is a compelling case for studying the functional strategy processes from fresh perspectives. This research intends to examine the significance of alternative forms of functional strategy process and organizational context and to explore how they are related to operational performance. The survey-based study will be administered via an online questionnaire. Sample data will be taken from Canadian manufacturing sector and the analysis will use basic and advanced statistical techniques (including factor analysis and regression/path analysis) to examine the co-relations and possible causality between strategy process, context and performance constructs. The findings will make contribution to strategic management theory by way of validating an empirically-based alternative model of functional strategy. This deeper understanding of functional strategy processes, context and performance will, in turn, help organizations to study effective types of functional strategy process under a given set of circumstances and develop functional capabilities that will support chosen strategic priorities to stay competitive in the market under specific and changing organizational contexts.

Keywords: functional strategy, performance measures, organizational structure

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Saad and Jagoda, Kalinga, Strategy, Process and Control: Theorizing the Integration of Functional Strategy and Performance Measures (April 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3218764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3218764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
J C Anderson , R G Schroeder , G Cleveland
The process of manufacturing strategy: some empirical observations and conclusions
International Journal of Operations & Production Management , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 86 - 110 Posted: 1991
Crossref
T M Amabile , R Conti , H Coon , J Lazenby , M Herron
Assessing the work environment for creativity
Academy of Management Journal , volume 39 , issue 5 , p. 1154 - 1184 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S D Amundson
Relationships between theory-driven empirical research in operations management and other disciplines
Journal of Operations Management , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 341 - 359 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Barney
Organizational culture: Can it be a source of sustained competitive advantage? Academy of Management Review , volume 11 , p. 656 - 665 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,650
RANK
481,321
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies