Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Financial Literacy and Expertise of Audit Committee Members

Giacomino, D., Akers, M., and Wall, J. (2009). Testing the Financial Literacy and Expertise of Audit Committee Members. The CPA Journal. August 2009: 66-71.

Posted: 9 Aug 2018

Don E. Giacomino

Marquette University - College of Business Administration

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Michael D. Akers

Marquette University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: August 1, 2009

Abstract

In recent years, several laws and regulations have set new requirements for the financial literacy and expertise of members of audit committees. ln 1999, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) added a rule requiring that each company have an audit committee comprising independent directors who are financially literate and including at least one financial expert. In that same year, the NYSE and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) formed a Blue Ribbon Committee to make recommendations on improving the effectiveness of audit committees. This paper examines financial expertise scales and reports results from the measurement of undergraduate accounting and finance majors.

Suggested Citation:

Giacomino, Don E. and Wall, Joseph and Akers, Michael D., Testing the Financial Literacy and Expertise of Audit Committee Members (August 1, 2009). Giacomino, D., Akers, M., and Wall, J. (2009). Testing the Financial Literacy and Expertise of Audit Committee Members. The CPA Journal. August 2009: 66-71. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3220018
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
645
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies