Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current Tax Issues with Captive Insurance Companies

Business Law Today, 2014

7 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2018

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

F. Hale Stewart

The Law Office of Hale Stewart

Date Written: February 20, 2014

Abstract

Large U.S. companies have been forming captive insurance companies since the 1950s. In general, such large captives are formed for one of three main reasons. First, some companies are unable to obtain necessary insurance coverage. For example, certain nuclear power companies formed a captive named Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited, because they could find no other insurance coverage. Second, some companies seek to obtain cheaper insurance. For example, the trucking market is currently “hardening” (premiums are increasing), leading to trucking companies forming captives. Third, some companies seek to gain more control over their current insurance program. The insurance code offers a small insurance company a strategic advantage: Internal Revenue Code (IRC) § 831(b) allows insurance companies with less than $1.2 million in premiums to be taxed on their investment earnings rather than on their gross income. As a simple example, suppose a small insurance company had $500,000 in income but earned 5 percent on its total portfolio earning $25,000 for the year. The company would use the $25,000 figure as their gross income figure for the year. A captive can also be formed offshore and still be deemed a captive, provided it makes an IRC § 953(d) election agreeing to be taxed as a domestic company. For many large captives, forming offshore may provide a great deal of flexibility not found onshore. However, it should be noted that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently spending a great deal of time focused on offshore tax enforcement. Recently, the IRS refused to issue a positive private letter ruling to a number of foreign captives seeking 831(b) status, which may be an indication of tougher IRS scrutiny in this area. Thus, while a compliant captive should ultimately have nothing to fear from operating internationally, there is at least some chance that doing so may result in some additional compliance costs if it gets caught up in the IRS dragnet. This article will: (1) provide a brief history of captive insurance companies; (2) outline key requirements for captive insurance including insurance risks, risk shifting, risk distribution, and reinsurance; and (3) discuss certain IRS enforcement areas in captives, including excessive premiums and IRC § 831(b) tax shelter issues.

Suggested Citation:

Cantley, Beckett and Stewart, Hale, Current Tax Issues with Captive Insurance Companies (February 20, 2014). Business Law Today, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3226621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
G Beckett , Cantley
Repeat as Necessary: Historical IRS Policy Weapons to Combat Conduit Captive Insurance Company Deductible Purchases of Life Insurance, 13 UC Davis Bus
L.J Posted: 2012
G Beckett , Cantley
Steering Into the Storm: Amplification of Captive Insurance Company Compliance Issues in the Offshore Tax Crackdown
Hous. Bus. & Tax L.J Posted: 2012
G Beckett , Cantley
The Forgotten Taxation Landmine: Application of the Accumulated Earnings Tax to IRC § 831(b) Captive Insurance Companies, 11 Rich
J. Global L. & Bus Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
RANK
897,570
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies