Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double-Entry Accounting Scalability to the Current Technology

6 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2018

Nesar Ahmad Noori

Independent

Date Written: August 2018

Abstract

This paper discusses the scalability of the double-entry accounting system to the current technology growth. Technology is one of the main improvement factors in the accounting industry, but unfortunately, camper to communication, social media, entertainment, and other industries it's not well enough adopted in the accounting industry, which is mostly because of the weakness which double-entry accounting has. First, the double-entry accounting system suffers from the time gap problem between doing and recording transactions, Second, this system ignores billions of individual access to essential financial services. Third, it is a kludge of a paper-based process and industrial technology. The best solution to these problems has emerged: peer-to-peer electronic accounting. It is a developed system of double-entry accounting, but instead of concentrating on one party it views and records a transaction for both affected sides at the same time.

Keywords: Peer-to-Peer Electronic Accounting, Double-Entry Accounting, Technology

JEL Classification: M41, O30

Suggested Citation:

Noori, Nesar Ahmad, Double-Entry Accounting Scalability to the Current Technology (August 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3230702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3230702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
T Clendon
Double-entry bookkeeping Posted: 2017-07-02
Cpa Australia
Australia, Australia: BPP Learning Media Ltd Posted: 2012
H Dauderis , D Annand
Introduction to Financial Accounting (2 ed.). Alberta, Canada: Valley Educational Services Ltd Posted: 2014
A guide to cloud accounting
Hawsons Chartered Accountants Posted: 2015-07-08
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,904
RANK
315,702
1 Citations
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies