Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practice of Intellectual Property Products Accounting in Russian Statistics

6 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2018

Natalyа Abrоskina

Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation (RANEPA) - Institute of Applied Economic Research

Alexander Abroskin

Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy; Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation (RANEPA) - Moscow Campus

Date Written: August 5, 2018

Abstract

Paper presented at 2018 International Academic Conference on Business San Francisco. The article concerns the topical issues of the intellectual property products accounting methodology in formation of system of macroeconomic indicators. Innovations in the intellectual property products accounting methodology in the System of National Accounts are systematized, methodological approaches to adjustment of the basic indicators of macroeconomic statistics are considered. The results of experimental calculations and estimates of macroeconomic indicators, adjusted in accordance with the innovations in the methodology of accounting of the research results, are presented.

Keywords: Macroeconomic Indicators, Methodology, Research and Development, Intellectual Property Products, the System of National Accounts, Economic Assets

JEL Classification: O34

Suggested Citation:

Abrоskina, Natalyа and Abroskin, Alexander, Practice of Intellectual Property Products Accounting in Russian Statistics (August 5, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3232659 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3232659
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
United Nations (2009) System of National Accounts Posted: 2008
Frascati Manual 2015: Guidelines for Collecting and Reporting Data on Research and Experimental Development, The Measurement of Scientific, Technological and Innovation Activities
OECD Posted: 2015
Technology Science , Indicators
Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,369
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies