Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Traditional Offers in Compromise

14 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2018

Frank Agostino

Agostino and Associates, PC - New Jersey Office

Valerie Vlasenko

Agostino and Associates, PC - New Jersey Office

Date Written: August 25, 2018

Abstract

This article reviews:

1) the goals of the IRS and its offer in compromise program;

2) the factors considered by the IRS in making determinations with respect to offers based on doubt as to collectibility and effective tax administration;

3) how to submit offers during examinations; and

4) the fundamentals of submitting offers based on collectibility while in litigation before the Tax Court.

Keywords: offer in compromise, collectibility, effective tax administration, tax court, taxpayer bill of rights

Suggested Citation:

Agostino, Frank and Vlasenko, Valerie, Non-Traditional Offers in Compromise (August 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3238805 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3238805
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
to resolve actual or potential transfer pricing disputes. See IRS, Advance Pricing and Mutual Agreement Program Posted: 2018-05-11
H R Rep
Posted: 1998
Doubt as to liability exists where there is a genuine dispute as to the existence or amount of the correct tax debt under the law. Such offers are outside the scope of this article. For additional information regarding doubt as to liability review Posted: 2017-02-28
I R M
Posted: 2017-05-05
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
145
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,368
RANK
461,979
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies