Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing ERM with the Theory of Change: The Example of the Metallurgical Industry

19 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2018

Vasilisa Makarova

National Research University Higher School of Economics (Moscow)

Date Written: november 11, 2017

Abstract

This article presents the results of a study on designing effective corporate governance based on a sufficient combination of internal controls, audits and risk management. The purpose of this study is to apply the provisions of the pure theory of change to develop a logical model for the creation of mature corporate governance in the example of the Russian metal industry. We chose the approach of the Theory of Change (ToC) as a tool and enterprise risk management (ERM) as a methodology for organisational decision making. Patterns of the ToC have been developed using the ERM approach and stakeholders’ opinions. The application of this theory is allowed to organically balance between the “standard” and the “framework” of ERM. Qualitative research methods were updated with the help of statistical research methods. The method of deep benchmarking was used to analyse the effectiveness of corporate governance and, in particular, to assess the maturity of ERM.

Keywords: Enterprise-Wide Risk Management, Theory of Change, Efficiency, Corporate Governance

JEL Classification: L61, M10

Suggested Citation:

Makarova, Vasilisa, Developing ERM with the Theory of Change: The Example of the Metallurgical Industry (november 11, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3247588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3247588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
C R Allen , J J Fontaine , K L Pope , A S Garmestani
Adaptive management for a turbulent future
Journal of Environmental Management , volume 92 , issue 5 , p. 1339 - 1345 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Allen W Bosch , O Kilvington , M Oliver , J Gilbert , M
Benefits of collaborative learning for environmental management: applying the integrated systems for knowledge management approach to support animal pest control
Journal of Environmental Management , volume 27 , p. 215 - 223 Posted: 2001
Allen W Cruz , J Warburton , B
How decision support systems can benefit from a theory of change approach Posted: 2017
Crossref
T J Andersen
Effective risk management outcomes: exploring effects of innovation and capital structure
Journal of Strategy and Management , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 352 - 379 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,237
RANK
834,175
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies