Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Literacy of Small Business Owners Important for Cash Flow Management?: The Experts’ Perspective

Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, 2018, Vol.13, No.1

37 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 2018

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Tapan Sarker

University of Southern Queensland; University of Southern Queensland

Date Written: September 27, 2018

Abstract

Small businesses play a crucial role in the Australian economy in terms of income and employment. Reliance on small business however can be concerning, as many small businesses fail to survive for a period of more than five years. This has been associated with the difficulty that small businesses face in maintaining a consistent cash flow. Research suggests that this may be related to financial and taxation literacy of the small business owner (SBO). Although SBOs have been identified has having a higher degree of financial literacy than individuals, it is unclear whether their level of literacy is adequate to support the management of the cash flow of their business. A continuing large research project investigates the required level of literacy that SBOs should possess to operate a successful business, with particular focus on cash flow management. This article reports expert perspectives of the degree of knowledge that is essential for SBOs in terms of professional financial literacy, computer accounting software literacy (CAS) and business taxation literacy in order to implement effective cash flow management practices.

Keywords: Small Business, Cash Flow, Tax Literacy, Financial Literacy, CAS Literacy

JEL Classification: K34, H25, I22

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett and Sarker, Tapan, Is the Literacy of Small Business Owners Important for Cash Flow Management?: The Experts’ Perspective (September 27, 2018). Journal of the Australasian Tax Teachers Association, 2018, Vol.13, No.1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
0 - Counts of Australian Businesses, Including Entries and Exits , volume 8165 Posted: 2012-06
Belle Isle , Melissa , Brett Freudenberg
Calm Waters: GST and Cash Flow Stability for Small Businesses in Australia , volume 13 Posted: 2015
Belle Isle , Brett Melissa , Richard Freudenberg , Copp
Cash Flow Benefit from GST: Is It Realised by Small Businesses in Australia?
Australian Tax Forum , volume 29 , issue 3 Posted: 2014
Belle Isle , Brett Melissa , Tapan Freudenberg , Sarker
The Small Business Cash Flow Struggle: What Role Does Owner Literacy Play?' (Working Paper Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,088
RANK
268,746
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies