Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Transfers From Us Taxpayers to Foreign Corporations – IRS Form 926

16 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2018

Frank Agostino

Agostino and Associates, PC - New Jersey Office

Victor Nazario

Agostino and Associates, PC - New Jersey Office

Date Written: August 23, 2018

Abstract

Driven by international trade and investment, and connected by family and technology, New York and New Jersey small businesses are expanding their businesses offshore. Entrepreneurs transfer property, cash, and other assets overseas or to foreign holding corporations to conduct everyday business transactions. Most tax professionals have taken continuing education courses on the Form 5471, Information Return of U.S. Persons With respect To Certain Foreign Corporations. However, the audits of entrepreneurs have revealed a filing requirement being overlooked - when a U.S. Person transfers property to a foreign corporation, he or she may need to file Form 926, Return by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corporation. This Article explains the basics of Form 926.

Keywords: Form 926, IRS, Internal Revenue Service, IRC, Internal Revenue Code, 6038B,Taxes, Federal, Business, Individual, Partnership, Gain Recognition Agreement, Compliance, Return, Penalties, Examination, International, Assessment, Deficiency, Reasonable Cause, Erin Collins, Garrett Hahn, KPMG

Suggested Citation:

Agostino, Frank and Nazario, Victor, Reporting Transfers From Us Taxpayers to Foreign Corporations – IRS Form 926 (August 23, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256874 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3256874
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
Frank Agostino
We recognize the contributions that Mary Beth Lougen, EA, USTCP
Esq. is the principal of, and Victor M
I R C 6038b
6038B-1(b)(1)(i)
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
227
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,051
RANK
307,614
2 Citations
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies