Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Liquidity Considerations of Malawian Mobile Operators

11 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2018

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: September 28, 2018

Abstract

Malawian mobile phone industry plays a significant role in the social and economic development of the country. It is undoubted factor that it is a lucrative source of corporate tax and various levies collected by government and regulators. Liquidity of the mobile operators is not a matter of choice but very important aspect in protecting the consumers and the local economy as whole as dependence in this sector is ever increasing.

This study has identified some serious liquidity problems rocking Malawian mobile industry and these should be cause for concern to central bank, regulators and the financial sector. The results of this study could be used as foundation for health debate in mapping up way forward for rolling out appropriate regulations to protect the economy from few but very powerful industry players instead of concentrating too much on how to collect more levies and taxes from this fragile sector.

Keywords: Malawi, mobile, operator, liquidity, cash, ratio

JEL Classification: G12, G21, G28, L33

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Liquidity Considerations of Malawian Mobile Operators (September 28, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3256764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3256764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
Paper F7: Financial Reporting (International), BPP Learning Ltd Posted: 2010
Crossref
Alliance for Financial Inclusion (2017) National Retail Payment Systems to Support Financial Inclusion Guideline Note No. 29 Posted: 2017-08
Cpa Australia
Guide to managing liquidity risk Posted: 2010
Sergei A Davydenko
Insolvency, Illiquidity, and the Risk of Default Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,216
RANK
805,836
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies