Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To the Frying Pan: New Virtues of Subpart F Income Over GILTI

Tax Notes, Vol. 160, No. 1, 2018

10 Pages Posted: 26 Nov 2018 Last revised: 27 Nov 2018

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: July 2, 2018

Abstract

Before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, U.S. federal income tax was generally imposed on the foreign income of a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) from certain passive sources or related party transactions (subpart F income). Each CFC had an incentive to avoid subpart F income, such as by ensuring that its foreign rental business is an active business.

The new tax law imposes U.S. federal income tax on a CFC's so-called global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), which generally covers a CFC's foreign income other than subpart F income. Although Congress intended for GILTI to have a lower overall tax burden than subpart F income, the article discusses some situations where a CFC is better off with subpart F income instead of GILTI. CFCs that previously moved their income out of the frying pan of subpart F into the new fire of GILTI might seek to move the income back.

Keywords: subpart F income, GILTI, CFC

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, To the Frying Pan: New Virtues of Subpart F Income Over GILTI (July 2, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 160, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,467
RANK
207,517
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies