Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Proposed Opportunity Zone Regulations

38 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2018

David S. Miller

Proskauer Rose LLP

Jean Bertrand

Proskauer Rose LLP

Sejin Park

Proskauer Rose LLP - Proskauer Rose LLP (L.A. Office)

Date Written: October 22, 2018

Abstract

On October 19, 2018, the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued proposed regulations under section 1400Z-2 of the Internal Revenue Code regarding the qualified opportunity zone program.

This paper summarizes some of the most important aspects of the proposed regulations.

Keywords: opportunity zone

JEL Classification: H20

Suggested Citation:

Miller, David S. and Bertrand, Jean and Park, Sejin, The Proposed Opportunity Zone Regulations (October 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3271311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3271311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Investors One inadvertent consequence of opportunity funds is that they make it easier for non-U.S. investors to avoid their U.S. tax liabilities. One of the challenges for the IRS and Treasury will be how to prevent this
United States real property interest" 103 ) or an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a trade or business in the United States, 104 the non-U.S. person is subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain, which is enforced through a withholding tax on the proceeds of the sale. 105 However, if that non-U.S. person were to invest capital gain realized from the sale of U.S. real property or the partnership interest that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business into an opportunity fund, the non-U.S. investor should be entitled to a refund of the amount withheld
ECI") or as FIRPTA gain and be
United States real property interest" includes an interest in real property located in the United States and an interest in a United States real property holding corporation
Section , volume 897 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
See also section
Section , volume 864 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,839
RANK
350,748
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies