Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legislative Foundation of the United States' New International Tax System

Seattle University Law Review, Vol. 42, No. 1, 2018

31 Pages Posted: 27 Nov 2018

Joshua Harms

Seattle University, School of Law, Students

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This Note begins with commentary on the United States’ former worldwide system of taxation. This system taxed multinational corporations’ offshore profits at the applicable domestic income tax rate less credits for taxes paid to foreign governments. This tax regime provided for the deferral of income tax due on the profits of multinational corporations’ overseas operations until the time of repatriation. This Note considers the issues inherent in this system and analyzes the repatriation tax holiday under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This holiday has been unanimously criticized by both sides of the political aisle and led to large multinational corporations stockpiling offshore profits at an even higher rate, likely in anticipation of more favorable legislation. This Note then contends that subsequent legislation aimed at altering the repatriation tax was viewed warily by members of Congress, who were cognizant of the holiday’s many failures. This Note concludes with an analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which replaced the United States’ former worldwide taxation system with a territorial taxation system. This new system, which does not tax multinational corporations’ foreign profits, rightly worries many commentators. However, anti-base erosion measures, a lower corporate income tax rate, and an influx of foreign-held cash may quell any negative effects this transition may have.

Keywords: tax, international tax, repatriation tax, tax cuts and jobs act, multinational corporation, repatriation, tax

Suggested Citation:

Harms, Joshua, Legislative Foundation of the United States' New International Tax System (2018). Seattle University Law Review, Vol. 42, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
Nick See , The Robins , Corporation , Changed , World , How , East India , Shaped , Modern Multinational
Posted: 2012
See Bruce Mazlish
Three Factors of Globalization: Multinational Corporations, NonGovernmental Organizations, and Global Consciousness
GLOBALITY STUD. J Posted: 2012-03-01
John Stopford , Corporations , Winter Foreign Pol&apos;y
, volume 12 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Recent advances in information technology, coupled with deregulation and market liberalization worldwide, have fueled an unprecedented surge in the growth of
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,153
RANK
568,179
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies