Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting in India

STRATEGIC FINANCE / July 2018

10 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2018

Raef A. Lawson

Profitability Analytics Center of Excellence

Date Written: July 1, 2018

Abstract

India is undergoing a rapid transformation. Recent events, including its currency demonetization, the rapid rollout of digital banking, and the introduction of a new nationwide goods and service tax (GST), are signs of the dramatic economic, social, and political changes taking place. This transformation will provide significant opportunities — and challenges — for Indian businesses. Management accountants can play a unique role in guiding their organizations in this changing business environment. No longer is their role confined to the accumulation and reporting of financial data. IMA® (Institute of Management Accountants) research has shown that finance and accounting professionals around the world are partnering with others inside their organizations to help formulate, evaluate, and implement their organizations’ strategy.

Keywords: India, Management Accounting

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lawson, Raef A., Management Accounting in India (July 1, 2018). STRATEGIC FINANCE / July 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3275060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
RANK
349,147
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies