Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can the OECD’S Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project Effectively Deal with Multinational Tax Avoidance? A Small Country Perspective

Presented at the 30th annual Asia-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues San Francisco, CA, USA 11-14 November 2018

18 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2018

Andrew M. C. Smith

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: October 30, 2018

Abstract

Tax avoidance by major multinational enterprises (MNEs) has been extremely topical after the great financial crisis of 2008. As a result, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in 2013 commenced a project known as the “base erosion and profit shifting” (BEPS) project to develop a multilateral solution to this problem. The key part of the BEPS solution has been the drafting of a multilateral convention (known as the “multilateral instrument” or MLI) which designed to modify many of the world’s existing double tax agreements so that they are more robust to deal with multinational tax avoidance.

This paper examines how effective the BEPS project, and in particular the MLI, will be in dealing with such tax avoidance from the perspective of a small country such as New Zealand. It does so by examining in detail how a major US multinational Google has been able to avoid paying New Zealand tax on orders obtained from New Zealand based advertisers (by doing business in a way that does not create a “permanent establishment” (PE) in New Zealand), and how the BEPS project and MLI aim to deal with such PE avoidance techniques.

The analysis in the paper concludes that the BEPS project and the MLI are unlikely to be sufficient on their own to deal with such tax avoidance techniques. While Google has changed as a result of the BEPS project how they will conduct future business in New Zealand, this is more likely for PR reasons rather than the strength of the BEPS initiatives. Countries such as New Zealand are likely to be force to enact further unilateral measures to deal with multinational tax avoidance with risks that DTA overrides may result and retaliation by trading partners.

Keywords: Multinational, Tax Avoidance, Double Tax Agreements, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), Multilateral Instrument (MLI), Permanent Establishment Avoidance

JEL Classification: K34, H26

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Andrew M. C., Can the OECD’S Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project Effectively Deal with Multinational Tax Avoidance? A Small Country Perspective (October 30, 2018). Presented at the 30th annual Asia-Pacific Conference on International Accounting Issues San Francisco, CA, USA 11-14 November 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3275740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Refer Shreya Rao
The Indian Equalisation Levy: Inelegant But Not Unexpected
NLS Business Law Review , volume 2 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2016
Nicholas Refer , Jones
$200m extra a year from closing multinational tax loopholes: Government Posted: 2017-08-03
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,538
RANK
271,971
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies