Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Creating a Profile of Employees in the Accounting Department

2015 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings

6 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2018

Lidija Grdošić

Erste Card Club Ltd.

Date Written: September 10, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of the paper is to present a survey on advertisements for jobs in accountancy published at the web site www.moj-posao.net from April 9th until June 1st, 2015. Following characteristics are investigated: employers’ ownership, employers’ trade, employee education and work experience, job type and additional skills. Typical employee in accountancy has a full-time job dominantly in a privately-owned company and an undergraduate or graduate diploma is not always required. People with high school diploma can also apply to many job offers in this sector because the emphasis lies more on the practical skills and a previous working experience is almost always necessary. She or he must know to use at least one accounting computer programme such as Synesis, Pantheon, 4D Wand... Additional skills that she or he should have are analytical skills, eagerness for a lifelong learning of countries legislation and International Financial Reporting Standards, interpersonal communication and responsibility. The results of the survey are used to determine the competitiveness of Accounting and Auditing graduates at the Faculty of Economics and Business in Zagreb, Croatia.

Keywords: accounting, employment, education, job competitiveness

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Grdošić, Lidija, Creating a Profile of Employees in the Accounting Department (September 10, 2015). 2015 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3281893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
I A Blake
How to Get an Accounting Job with no Experience Posted: 2015-06-20
K Černe
Student's Perception of the Accounting Profession from the Aspect of International Educational Standards for Professional Accountants Posted: 2008-07-01
N Dečman
The Role of the Accounting Profession in Providing Reliable Information Foundation for the Purpose of Decision-Making in Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises in the Republic of Croatia Posted: 2013-07-01
N Dečman , A Rep
Analysis of the Accountants Education System in Croatia and Europe Posted: 2015-07-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,294
RANK
627,303
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies