Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Accounting Information in Decision-Making Process, the Importance for its Users

2017 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings

8 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2018

Nexhmie Berisha Vokshi

University of Prishtina

Florentina Xhelili Krasniqi

University of Prishtina

Date Written: September 7, 2017

Abstract

Overall economic development of the country, beside it, requires adequate information, reliable and important for economic decisions from investors, managers, administrators of state, etc. Along with other economic development and management, also and development of an accounting system, able to provide the necessary information and reliable in decision-making, is an important factor. Qualitative and reliable financial information is a key element in decision-making process, while the availability of such information has special importance for business management and is public interest with priority in general. The role of this information is important, not only for foreign investors or large businesses, but even for those small and medium because it provides important information about the phases of decision-making, such as planning, control and evaluation. The aim of this study is to provide an overview of developments and knowledge on accounting information and the influence that it has on decision-making, needs that management has for information and how they are realized currently, in order to see accounting information as one of the important directions of increase of efficiency on decisionmaking of direction of economic units (entities) and users of accounting information. Through descriptive statistical analysis the importance of high quality accounting information and its impact on decision-making by its users will be presented. We conclude that the information is an indispensable resource for the development of successful and efficient business. The information communicated by accounting is very important for its users, because it will affect on making an economic decision. This information must meet the qualitative characteristics, so we have to be accurate, valid and useful so that users trust its quality and authenticity. An exact information will reflect in a reliable financial reporting and this will result in strengthening the financial position of the entity, will identify risks and will manage them on time , will enable the attraction of investments, then decisions will be taken on the basis of strong economic information.

Keywords: accounting information, the entity, the economic decision-making, accounting, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Berisha Vokshi, Nexhmie and Xhelili Krasniqi, Florentina, Role of Accounting Information in Decision-Making Process, the Importance for its Users (September 7, 2017). 2017 ENTRENOVA Conference Proceedings, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
N Berisha Vokshi
Standardization of accounting in Kosovo
Finance and Management Sciences , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 17 Posted: 2012
N Berisha Vokshi
The public sector accounting Posted: 2013
B D Handayani
Affecting Factors of the use of accounting information for small and medium Enterprises , volume 11 , p. 50 - 67 Posted: 2011
R W Ingram , T L Albright
Financial Accounting, Information for Decision Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6,312
ABSTRACT VIEWS
27,053
RANK
2,810
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies