Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Taxpayer Protection and Responsible Resolution Act of 2018 (Chapter 14 Financial Institution Bankruptcy Proposal)

7 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2018

Adam J. Levitin

Georgetown University Law Center

Date Written: November 19, 2018

Abstract

This is a short analysis of the Taxpayer Protection and Responsible Resolution Act (TPRRA) of 2018, a proposal to amend the Bankruptcy Code add a new Chapter 14 authorizing a single-point-of-entry style resolution of failed bank holding companies. The analysis shows that TPRRA would dangerously increase systemic risk in the U.S. economy by neutering the Dodd-Frank Act's living wills requirement while incentivizing excessive use of qualified financial contracts.

TPRRA makes it all the more likely that Chapter 14 would have to be used, but if Chapter 14 were ever invoked, it would be a disaster. Chapter 14 lacks a mechanism for providing the tens of billions of dollars of liquidity that would be needed immediately by a restructured megabank. The lack of a liquidity facility all be ensures a creditor run once a 48-hour stay is lifted. The result would be the chaos of a second Lehman Brothers, but one in which Main Street creditors would be stuck with Wall Street's tab even as they are denied basic due process.

Keywords: Financial institutions bankruptcy, SPOE, single-point-of-entry, Chapter 14, QFC

Suggested Citation:

Levitin, Adam J., Analysis of the Taxpayer Protection and Responsible Resolution Act of 2018 (Chapter 14 Financial Institution Bankruptcy Proposal) (November 19, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3287633 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3287633
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Tprra § 1403
Crossref
Tprra § §
, volume 1408
Crossref
Tprra § § 1405
Crossref
TPRRA § 1405(c)(1)(B), (E)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,615
RANK
682,707
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies