Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Substance and Form of the Palmrose/Kinney versus DeFond/Lennox/Zhang Debate

8 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2018

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: November 21, 2018

Abstract

It may come as a surprise that “Substance over Form” is a purely accounting term and is not borrowed from the legal or classical literature. However, FASB (2010) removed it as a qualitative characteristic because it was deemed important and obvious enough as to be redundant with faithful representation. The Palmrose/Kinney (2018) versus DeFond/Lennox/Zhang (2018) debate is essentially about “substance over form”. Their debate demonstrates that FASB should restore “substance over form” to the conceptual framework.

Keywords: Substance over Form, faithful representation, conceptual framework

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, Substance and Form of the Palmrose/Kinney versus DeFond/Lennox/Zhang Debate (November 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3288816 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3288816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Report of the Study Group on the Objectives of Financial Statements
AICPA Posted: 1973
A K Davis , D A Guenther , L K Krull , B M Williams
Do Socially Responsible Firms Pay More Taxes
The Accounting Review , volume 91 , p. 47 - 68 Posted: 2016-01
Crossref
M L Defond , C S Lennox , Jieying Zhang , J
The Primacy of Fair Presentation: Evidence from PCAOB Standards, Federal Legislation, and the Courts. Accounting Horizons , volume 32 , p. 91 - 100 Posted: 2018-09
Crossref
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). 2010. Concept Statement
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,377
RANK
496,121
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies