Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Through a Glass Darkly: REIT Earnings and Profits

Tax Notes, Vol. 161, No. 3, 2018

10 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2018

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Michael Grisolia

Roberts & Holland LLP

Date Written: October 15, 2018

Abstract

The tax concept of "earnings and profits" generally determines the amount of corporate distributions that is treated as taxable dividends for the shareholders. Earnings and profits are even more important for REITs, because of REITs' distribution requirements and the additional tax on undistributed REIT earnings and profits. However, the rules for tracking REITs' earnings and profits are complex, with potential for whipsaws in which shareholders are taxed on more income than the REIT actually earned. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 further complicated these rules in several respects, particularly with respect to bonus depreciation and the new section 965 tax on deferred foreign income, creating further potential whipsaws but also planning opportunities. The article explores both the existing and new complexities and potential consequences of the REIT earnings and profits rules.

Keywords: REIT, earnings and profits, section 965, depreciation

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin and Grisolia, Michael, Through a Glass Darkly: REIT Earnings and Profits (October 15, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 161, No. 3, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3290969
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,342
RANK
225,151
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies