Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) and Its Impact on Investors, Their Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans and Estates -- Part 1 Tax Reform for Individuals

Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2018

42 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2018

Dean Marsan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 30, 2018

Abstract

This article is the first of three parts (Part 1) and examines the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and its impact on investors and their investment entities, retirement plans, trusts and estates and also tracks its legislative history through Congress. This article focuses on the tax reform's impact on individuals and the second article submitted to SSRN discusses business tax reform (Part 2) and compensation reforms (Part 3).

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, TCJA, Investors, Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans, Estates, Tax Rates, Capital Gains, Dividends, AMT, Cost Basis Reporting, Financial Products, Carried Interests, Excess Business Losses, Personal Exemptions, Standard Deduction, SALT, Itemized Deductions

JEL Classification: K34, M$!

Suggested Citation:

Marsan, Dean, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) and Its Impact on Investors, Their Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans and Estates -- Part 1 Tax Reform for Individuals (June 30, 2018). Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 15, No. 4, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
s or S corporation shareholder's distributive or pro-rata share of income or loss on a Schedule K-1 (or similar form), will continue to reduce such partner's or shareholder's distributive or pro-rata share of income as under present law
TCJA Section , p. 78 - 81
Irs Advisory
Prepaid Real Property Taxes May Be Deductible in 2017 if Assessed and Paid in 2017 Posted: 2017-12
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R. 1, Section-by-Section Summary, Ways and Means Committee Majority Tax
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,860
RANK
235,061
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies