Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) and Its Impact on Investors, Their Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans and Estates -- Part 2 Business Tax Reform and Compensation Reforms

Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2018

26 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2018

Dean Marsan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 30, 2018

Abstract

This article is the second and third part of a three-part article which reviews the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) and its impact on Investors, their trusts, investment entities, retirement plans and estates, and also tracks its legislative history through Congress. Part 2 of this article examines the business tax reforms and Part 3 examines the compensation reforms. Part 1 was submitted to SSRN and examines the tax reform's broad impact on individual investors.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, TCJA, Investors, Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans, Estates, Tax Rates, AMT, Expensing, Research Expenditures, Interest Expense, NOLs, Tax Accounting, Inventories, Housing Credits, RSUs, Equity Grants, Defer

JEL Classification: K34, M4

Suggested Citation:

Marsan, Dean, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) and Its Impact on Investors, Their Trusts, Investment Entities, Retirement Plans and Estates -- Part 2 Business Tax Reform and Compensation Reforms (August 30, 2018). Journal of Taxation of Financial Products, Vol. 16, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3292299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R. 1, Section-by-Section Summary
Description of the Chairman's Mark of the 'Tax Cuts and Jobs Act'" (JCX-51-17), prepared by the Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation , p. 55 - 56 Posted: 2017-11-09
Reconciliation Recommendations at page 6
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,160
RANK
663,174
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies