Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Dilution and Damages as Contribution-Default Remedies in Failing LLCs and Partnerships

Business Law Today (Nov. 2018)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 578

5 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2018

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Thomas E. Rutledge

Stoll Keenon Ogden PLLC

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 4, 2018

Abstract

Interest dilution often appears as a contribution-default remedy in LLC operating agreements and limited partnership agreements. Entities adopt interest-dilution remedies to create a financial incentive for members to fulfill their contribution obligations. That incentive generally would not exist in a failing arrangement because members will hesitate to throw good money after bad, so, if the only contribution-default remedy is interest dilution, members of a failing LLC or partnership may be able to avoid making additional contributions to the entity. To enforce a contribution obligation, the entity agreement must allow for damages as a remedy. This article discusses three recent cases (two from Kansas and one from Delaware) that identify situations in which the entity agreement limits contribution-default remedies to interest dilution and those that provide for damages as a possible remedy. The cases show that careful drafting is necessary to ensure the arrangement achieves the parties’ objectives, and the article discusses steps drafters may take to properly document those objectives.

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Rutledge, Thomas E., Interest Dilution and Damages as Contribution-Default Remedies in Failing LLCs and Partnerships (December 4, 2018). Business Law Today (Nov. 2018), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 578, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3295793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
174
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,894
RANK
344,239
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies