Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sourcing Rule Change: Manufacturing and Competitiveness

Tax Notes, Volume 161, Number 6, November 5, 2018

7 Pages Posted: 26 Dec 2018

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: November 5, 2018

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97) amended the section 863(b) source rule by sourcing the sale of taxpayer-produced property fully at the location(s) of production. There is no longer any portion that will be sourced at the location of sale. This new rule provides an apparent competitive advantage to some foreign manufacturers over comparable U.S. manufacturers. This amendment benefits foreign-based manufacturers selling their products into the United States or selling them elsewhere in the world through U.S. sales branches. Moreover, this source rule is one more TCJA encouragement for U.S.-based manufacturers to offshore their manufacturing to lower their U.S. tax costs.

Because of the section 865(e)(2) override of other sourcing rules, there is ambiguity in applying the sourcing and effectively connected income rules to foreign manufacturers (whether ultimately foreign-owned or U.S.-owned) selling through a U.S. sales branch.

After explaining these issues, recommendations are provided in this article that outline specific legislative fixes to eliminate the competitiveness issue, the encouragement to offshoring, and the ambiguity arising out of the new sourcing rule.


Keywords: Sourcing Rules, International Taxation, Manufacturing, Section 863(b), Section 865(e), Effectively Connected Income

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., Sourcing Rule Change: Manufacturing and Competitiveness (November 5, 2018). Tax Notes, Volume 161, Number 6, November 5, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3296763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Jeffery M. Kadet
REG-100956-19 Public Hearing - Outline of Topics
23 Pages · Posted: 16 Jun 2020 · Downloads: 25
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,240
RANK
713,739
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies