Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Discreet Charms of the Dividends Received Deduction

Tax Notes, Vol. 161, No. 7, 2018

11 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2019

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: November 12, 2018

Abstract

The headline international tax reform of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was to switch the United States to a territorial taxation system. If a domestic corporation is a 10 percent or more shareholder of a foreign corporation, new section 245A generally provides the domestic corporation with a 100 percent dividends received deduction (DRD) for dividends from the foreign corporation. The DRD effectively renders the foreign corporation’s foreign earnings tax-free for a domestic corporate shareholder.

This report discusses some considerations in determining the section 245A DRD and its interactions with other code provisions, with some possibly unintended effects and traps for the unwary.

Keywords: participation exemption, dividends received deduction, section 245A, international taxation

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, The Discreet Charms of the Dividends Received Deduction (November 12, 2018). Tax Notes, Vol. 161, No. 7, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3297759
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,370
RANK
263,504
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies