Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Independence

Wiley Encyclopedia of Management, 2014

9 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2018

Oliver Marnet

University of Southampton

David Gwilliam

University of Wales

Date Written: January 12, 2014

Abstract

The concept and notion of auditor independence has been of key importance to the audit profession, and to the variety of stakeholders who rely upon the work of auditors, for more than one hundred and fifty years. This contribution seeks to bring forward a number of the issues which underpin the concept together with a brief review both of recent regulatory developments and empirical evidence which seeks to consider whether auditors are in fact independent in practice.

At one level the economic dependence of auditors on clients on whose financial statements they are providing an opinion suggests a prima facie lack of independence. Beyond this however there are perhaps wider and more subtle issues as to the manner in which auditors obtain, collate and evaluate the information which they rely upon to come to their opinion – sometimes termed epistemological independence – and, to an extent interlinked, the range and variety of behavioural, cultural and judgemental biases which may act to impact on that opinion.

There are however a range of factors which act to constrain auditors from behaving in a non-independent manner. These include the professional training of auditors, the significant adverse economic out-turns which may result from the provision of an inappropriate audit opinion, and the range of regulatory review and indeed sanctions – including those relating to corporate governance – which seek to ensure that auditors do carry out their work and make their judgements in an independent manner.

The nature of regulatory and governance change at both national and supra-national levels in recent years is reviewed briefly as is the quite extensive, albeit rather mixed, empirical evidence as to the nature of auditor independence. This empirical evidence focuses on both stakeholder perceptions and also attempts to link aspects of independence with both client reporting behaviour and actual auditor judgements. The reader is directed to references which allow this literature to be explored in greater depth.

Keywords: auditor independence, bias, conflict of interest

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Marnet, Oliver and Gwilliam, David, Auditor Independence (January 12, 2014). Wiley Encyclopedia of Management, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3299976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
R Antle , E Gordon , G Narayanamoorthy , L Zhou
The joint determination of audit fees, non-audit fees, and abnormal accruals
Review of Quantitative Finance & Accounting , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 266 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H Ashbaugh , R Lafond , B Mayhew
Do non-audit services compromise auditor independence? Further evidence
Accounting Review , volume 78 , p. 611 - 650 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Professional Scepticism
Auditing Practices Board (APB Posted: 2012-03
V Beattie
Initial review of relevant academic literature Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,188
RANK
724,701
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies