Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critique of BEAT Critiques

Columbia Journal of Tax Law Tax Matters, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2018

7 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2018

Omri Y. Marian

University of California, Irvine School of Law

Date Written: December 5, 2018

Abstract

Of all the new base-broadening rules enacted in the Tax Cut and Jobs Act, none has been subject to more complaints than the BEAT. The essay argues, that while there is much to improve about the BEAT, a significant part of the criticism against it is unwarranted. Many of the critiques make use of unlikely hypothetical business structures to demonstrate supposed failures in the operation of the new law. Many of the hypotheticals used, however, are either irrelevant (as they assume business structures that no taxpayers would reasonably use) or extremely rare. In other instances the examples used are more realistic, but the complaints are made against the successful operation of the law as intended.

Keywords: TCJA, BEAT, International Tax, Tax Refrom

JEL Classification: K34, H20, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Marian, Omri Y., A Critique of BEAT Critiques (December 5, 2018). Columbia Journal of Tax Law Tax Matters, Vol. 10, No. 1, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3300869
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,510
RANK
496,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies