Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Develop a Peer-to-Peer Electronic Accounting System

13 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2019 Last revised: 2 Mar 2019

Nesar Ahmad Noori

Independent

Date Written: December 15, 2018

Abstract

This paper introduces a peer-to-peer electronic accounting system, as the current system sufferers from the inherent weakness of double-entry accounting, for example, a time gap problem between occurring and recording transactions, ignoring billions of individual’s access to essential financial information and the possibility of fraud and error. The most efficient solution to these problems has emerged to be a peer-to-peer electronic accounting system. It is an advanced system of double-entry accounting, but instead of concentrating on one party, it views and records transactions for both affected parties at the same time. It would enable electronic financial transactions between various parties, such as electronic payment, online credit transaction, foreign exchange, and securities exchange.

Keywords: Peer-to-Peer Electronic Accounting, Accounting, Double-Entry Accounting, Accounting Information System

JEL Classification: M41, O31

Suggested Citation:

Noori, Nesar Ahmad, How to Develop a Peer-to-Peer Electronic Accounting System (December 15, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3301819 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3301819
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Anne Britton , Chris Waterston
Posted: 2006
Crossref
Chan , H Siew , J Lee , John R Yao , Carlson
Do Firms Use the Database Accounting Approach In The Design of Their AIS?
International Journal of The Computer, the Internet and Management , volume 15 , p. 39 - 62 Posted: 2007
Faye Chua
Professional Accountants -the future: Drivers of change and future skills. The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Posted: 2016
Cpa Australia
Financial Accounting and Reporting. 7th. BPP Learning Media Ltd Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,985
RANK
456,685
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies