Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Facilitating Citizens’ Voice and Process Reengineering Using a Cloud-based Mobile App

58 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2019

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: May 20, 2018

Abstract

Recently, the City of Boston, in conjunction with a corporate partner, implemented a mobile, cloud-based app. Originally called “Citizens Connect,” but now called “Bos:311,” that app allows a citizen to report issues related the city’s infrastructure, e.g., graffiti and other concerns. Rich information in the form of pictures and descriptions are provided by users from their mobile devices, along with GPS location information, crowdsourcing monitoring of the City’s infrastructure. The app provides citizens with another channel for government to engage them and solicit their voice to potentially keep them from “exiting” (or working to push out those in government) and allows cities to generate “loyalty” consistent with Hirschman’s classic economic analysis. In addition, this app ultimately can provide “straight through” processing of citizen requests in order to facilitate substantial reengineering of the process of monitoring and fixing city infrastructure, consistent with Hammer’s notions of reengineering. As a result, operations and management accounting information can be more accurate and used in real time. In addition, the cloud-based capture of information from multiple cities allows comparisons and benchmarking of critical information that likely would not be possible in other settings, while allowing economic system use by large numbers of users. This system provides an integration of mobile apps and the cloud to generate improved information and transparency. This paper investigates a number of hypotheses about the use of the mobile app generated from both Hirschman’s and Hammer’s theories.

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Facilitating Citizens’ Voice and Process Reengineering Using a Cloud-based Mobile App (May 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3304793 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3304793
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Accenture
Accenture transforms citizen services in New York City Posted: 2005
P Allison
When Can You Safely Ignore Multicollinearity? Posted: 2012-09
D Cameron
A New Politics. Available at Posted: 2009
F Cate
Privacy in the information age Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,456
RANK
703,106
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies