Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Bases and Key Issues of Turkish-German Automatic Exchange of Information: Implementing the Standard in Turkey

in Leyla Ates & Joachim Englisch (eds.), Automatic Exchange of Information and Prospects of Turkish-German Cooperation-Proceedings of 2nd Turkish-German Biennial on International Tax Law, Istanbul: On İki Levha, 137-158 (2018)

14 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2019

Leyla Ates

Altinbas University

Date Written: January 31, 2018

Abstract

The extent of the information subjected to automatic exchange under the scope of cross border tax administrative cooperation is increasing day by day. Nowadays, financial accounts, non-financial categories (such as changes of domicile, immovable property acquisitions and transfers, value added tax refunds, withholding taxes), cross border rulings, advance price agreements and country-by-country reports are subject to automatic exchange. However, this study will focus on one of them only: the automatic exchange of financial account information.

At the Saint Petersburg Summit on 6 September 2013, the leaders of the G20 countries — Turkey and Germany among them — expressed both their commitment to the exchange of information as the new global standard, and their full support for the efforts of the OECD, (of which both Turkey and Germany are also members) in developing it. The standard, developed by the OECD, for the automatic exchange of financial information in tax matters was first endorsed by the Ministers of Finance and the Governors of the Central Banks of the G20 on 23 February 2014. In its 6 May 2014 declaration, OECD members and some non-member countries expressed their commitment to the swift implementation of the automatic exchange of information standard and its transposition into domestic laws. Following its approval by the OECD Council on 15 July 2014, a detailed commentary of the standard and its full text, which includes the technical solutions for the implementation of information exchange, were published under the title of “Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters”, thereby emulating the USA’s systematic approach to this area.

Accordingly, tax administrative cooperation for the automatic exchange of financial information between Turkey and Germany will be conducted according to the Standard. The present study assesses the steps taken by Turkey to implement such cooperation.

Keywords: Automatic Exchange of Information, Common Reporting Standard, FATCA

JEL Classification: H11, H21, H87, F02, F50, F53, F59, Z13, E63, H2, K33, K34, N40, P45

Suggested Citation:

Ates, Leyla, Legal Bases and Key Issues of Turkish-German Automatic Exchange of Information: Implementing the Standard in Turkey (January 31, 2018). in Leyla Ates & Joachim Englisch (eds.), Automatic Exchange of Information and Prospects of Turkish-German Cooperation-Proceedings of 2nd Turkish-German Biennial on International Tax Law, Istanbul: On İki Levha, 137-158 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3308332 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3308332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
the agreement signed with Bermuda was ratified by the Council of Ministers by Decree , volume 4506 Posted: 2013-03
All of them had been signed before the OECD's 2015 exchange of information agreement model, which provides for automatic exchange of information. They were instead based on information exchange only upon request, in accordance with the OECD's 2002 model. 57 The parties did stipulate otherwise, preferring to include automatic and/or of spontaneous exchange of information. Consequently, Turkey cannot perform the automatic exchange of information according to the Standard, under the scope of our current tax information exchange agreements. In other words, none of our tax information exchange agreements that are in force or 47 GİB
55 thus taking effect in domestic law, they have not yet come into effect internationally Posted: 2016
These countries are Cayman Islands (Turkey; Cayman Islands -Exchange of information agreement between Turkey and Cayman Islands -negotiations underway
News IBFD) ve British Virgin Islands (Turkey; British Virgin Islands -Exchange of information agreement between Turkey and British Virgin Islands -negotiations underway Posted: 2012-08-27
Oecd See
Exchange of Tax Information Portal: Turkey Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,454
RANK
682,707
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies