Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fad or Future?: Automated Analysis of Financial Text and Its Implications for Corporate Reporting

Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research

54 Pages Posted: 12 Jan 2019

Craig M. Lewis

Vanderbilt University - Finance

Steven Young

Lancaster University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 31, 2018

Abstract

This paper describes the current state of natural language processing (NLP) as it applies to corporate reporting. We document dramatic increases in the quantity of verbal content that are an integral part of company reporting packages as well as the evolution of text analytic approaches that are being employed to analyse this content. We provide intuitive descriptions of the leading analytic approaches that are applied in the academic accounting and finance literatures. This discussion includes key word searches and counts, attribute dictionaries, naïve Bayesian classification, cosine similarity, and latent Dirichlet allocation. We also discuss how increasing interest in NLP processing of the corporate reporting package could and should influence financial reporting regulation and note that textual analysis is currently is more of an afterthought, if it is even considered. Opportunities for improving the usefulness of NLP processing are discussed as well as possible impediments.

Keywords: Natural Language Processing, NLP, Review, IASB Disclosure Initiative, Disclosure Problem

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lewis, Craig M. and Young, Steven, Fad or Future?: Automated Analysis of Financial Text and Its Implications for Corporate Reporting (December 31, 2018). Forthcoming in Accounting and Business Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3309230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
972
RANK
383,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies