Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basic and Non-Basic Tax Tips for Leasing Lawyers

Practical Real Estate Lawyer, Vol.35, p.48, Jan. 2019

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 583

17 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2019

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: January 7, 2019

Abstract

Leases raise numerous tax issues. Attorneys advising landlords and tenants should be aware of the general tax aspects of leases and know of more complicated tax issues that may affect leases and be prepared to introduce those issues to experts in taxation of leases. This article covers basic tax aspects of leases, including the character and timing of rental income and rent deductions; the deductibility of tenant improvements; and the consequences to the landlords and tenants of lease terminations, including leases with tenant improvements. The article also introduces non-basic leasing topics, such as section 467 leases and loans and leases used in basic and complex section 1031 exchanges.

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Basic and Non-Basic Tax Tips for Leasing Lawyers (January 7, 2019). Practical Real Estate Lawyer, Vol.35, p.48, Jan. 2019, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 583, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3311645
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,755
RANK
292,525
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies