Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Implementation Regional Financial Accounting System, Human Resource Competency and Infrastructure Facilities to the Quality of Financial Report

11 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2019

Kevin Thenikusuma

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Nathasya Muis

Atma Jaya Makassar University, Students

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

This study aims to analyze the effect of the implementation regional financial accounting system, human resource competency and infrastructure facilities to the quality of financial report at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency, either partially or simultaneously.

This research was conducted at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency Office. The research will be conducted for 3 months. The source of data in this study is a secondary data sourced from information in place of research, scientific journals and books related to the object of research and primary data obtained directly from the respondents or who became the sample in this study. Data analysis in this research use multiple linear regression analysis.

The number of samples used is all employees who amounted to 35 respondents. Data analysis used multiple linear regression analysis by performing partial test (t-test) and simultaneous test (F-test).

The result of the research shows that 1) The Implementation regional financial accounting system has a positive and significant partially effect on the quality of financial report at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency; 2) The human resources competence has a positive and significant partially effect on the quality of financial report at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency; 3) Infrastructure facilities has positive and significant partially effect on the quality of financial report at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency and 4) Implementation regional financial accounting system, human resource competence and infrastructure facilities have positive and significant simultaneously effect on the quality of financial report at Social Agency Bantaeng Regency.

Keywords: Implementation Regional Financial Accounting System, Human Resource Competency, Infrastructure Facilities, Quality of Financial Report

JEL Classification: Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Thenikusuma, Kevin and Muis, Nathasya, The Effect of Implementation Regional Financial Accounting System, Human Resource Competency and Infrastructure Facilities to the Quality of Financial Report (January 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3313401 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3313401
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
The application of the regional financial accounting system has a positive and significant effect partially on the quality of financial reports at the Bantaeng District Social Service
Abdul Halim
Akuntansi Sektor Publik akuntansi Keuangan Daerah Edisi pertama, Salemba empat Posted: 2002
Ardan Abidin
Pengaruh Penarapan Sistem Akuntansi Instansi Terhadap Kualitas Laporan Keuangan (Pada Komisi Pemilihan Umum Prov Posted: 2013
M N Alim , T Hapsari , L Dan Purwanti
Pengaruh Kompetensi dan Independensi terhadap Kualitas Audit dengan Etika Auditor sebagai Variabel Moderasi
Simposium Nasional Akuntansi X Makassar Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
455
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
145,309
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies