Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ten Reasons to Prefer Tax Partnerships Over S-Corporations

NY Business Law Journal, Vol. 22, No. 2, p 47, Winter 2018

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 584

9 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2019

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: January 14, 2019

Abstract

A fundamental choice for every business owner is the type of legal and tax entity the owner will use for the business. Because C-corporations are subject to an entity-level tax, owners of small businesses often face the choice of operating as an S-corporation or a tax partnership. To the uninitiated, the choice may appear to be trivial because both tax partnerships and S-corporations provide passthrough tax treatment (i.e., no entity-level tax). In fact, however, despite the passthrough nature of both tax partnerships and S-corporations, tax law treats them differently in many respects. This article identifies ten ways in which tax law treats the two types of tax entities differently, showing that in many situations, business owners will be better served by forming as tax partnerships. The article also identifies situations under which S-corporations provide the better tax alternative. The article includes a discussion of how changes to tax law in the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can affect the choice between a tax partnership and an S-corporation. In short, the article shows that not all passthrough tax regimes treat businesses equally.

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Ten Reasons to Prefer Tax Partnerships Over S-Corporations (January 14, 2019). NY Business Law Journal, Vol. 22, No. 2, p 47, Winter 2018, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 584, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315586
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
713
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,979
RANK
82,662
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies