Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Qualified Opportunity Zones: Death, Taxes, and Other Uncertainties

Tax Management Real Estate Journal, Vol. 35, No. 2, Feb. 6, 2019.

5 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2019 Last revised: 13 Feb 2019

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: January 11, 2019

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 created substantial new federal tax benefits for taxpayers with capital gain, if they make certain investments in so-called "qualified opportunity zones" (QO Zones). The QO Zone tax benefits generally include permanent tax exemption of up to 15% of the recognized gain and tax deferral of the remaining gain until 2026. In addition, the taxpayer's gain from selling its QO Zone investments after 10 years is entirely exempt from tax.

Despite Benjamin Franklin's quip that two things are certain in life, death and taxes, there is less certainty about death and taxes in the context of QO Zones. This article discusses the issues that may arise with the death of the investor, as well as the interactions of the QO Zone provisions with other tax benefits, such as the new markets tax credit, the low income housing tax credit, the historic rehabilitation tax credit, the 20% pass-through business income deduction, or all of the above.

Keywords: qualified opportunity zones, death, basis step-up, new markets tax credit, low income housing tax credit, turduckens

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Qualified Opportunity Zones: Death, Taxes, and Other Uncertainties (January 11, 2019). Tax Management Real Estate Journal, Vol. 35, No. 2, Feb. 6, 2019. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3315558
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,072
RANK
371,877
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies