Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mining Taxation, Its Complex Disciplinary Identity and Its Environmental Foundation

“Environmental Protection. Taxation and other measures of the Right to Development”, Thomson Reuters, Spain, 2019, 180-200.

Posted: 6 Feb 2019 Last revised: 14 Nov 2019

Patrici Masbernat

Universidad Autonoma de Chile; Universidad Santo Tomas, Chile

Gloria Ramos-Fuentes

Universidad Autonoma de Chile; Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of Chile

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to show the complexity of the content of the Mining Tax Law. It is a legal system that has multiple foundations and different elements. For example, it is linked to both Mining Law and Environmental Law; Public Law and Private Law, International Law and Constitutional Law. Its tools are regulatory, parafiscal and fiscal; and in a specific way, in tax matters, there are other multiple schemes such as royalties or the whole range of taxes, among which the income tax stands out. On the other hand, all levies and taxes cross and influence each other in a system that results in the Mining Tax Law. The outcome is a normative system in constant evolution and that, currently, is influenced by the broad environmental protection objectives.

Keywords: mining taxation, environment, sustainable development

JEL Classification: K23

Suggested Citation:

Masbernat, Patricio and Ramos-Fuentes, Gloria and Ramos-Fuentes, Gloria, Mining Taxation, Its Complex Disciplinary Identity and Its Environmental Foundation (January 22, 2019). “Environmental Protection. Taxation and other measures of the Right to Development”, Thomson Reuters, Spain, 2019, 180-200., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320737
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
813
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies