Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Links to the Past: Old Exceptions to New Interest Deduction Limitations

Tax Notes Vol. 162, No. 3, January 2019

16 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2019 Last revised: 3 Mar 2020

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: January 21, 2019

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97) enacted new rules that can severely limit taxpayers’ ability to deduct some business interest expenses. This limitation, in new section 163(j), has both substantive tax effects and significant implementation costs, especially after Treasury released 439 pages of proposed regulations.

The section 163(j) business interest limitation applies to all taxpayers, including individuals, partnerships, domestic corporations, and some foreign corporations. This Special Report discusses three important exceptions, for investment interest, small businesses, and real property businesses. The exceptions are based on existing tax provisions, which already have helpful guidance and should be relatively easy to apply.

This article discusses some issues with 163(j), including (i) interaction with the investment interest expense rules, (ii) what is a "tax shelter" for purposes of the small business exception, (iii) effect of a taxpayer that is a small business in one year but not another year, (iv) what happens if a taxpayer makes the real property trade or business (RPTB) election in a later year, such as an S corporation, and (v) the effect of section 163(j) on domestic and foreign partnerships owned by controlled foreign corporations (CFCs).

The report concludes with a simplified example of the business interest limitation for an affected partnership.

Keywords: Section 163(j), Business Interest Limitation, Guaranteed Payment, Real Property Trade or Business Election, Small Business, Tax Shelter, Syndicate

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Links to the Past: Old Exceptions to New Interest Deduction Limitations (January 21, 2019). Tax Notes Vol. 162, No. 3, January 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3321968
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,649
RANK
213,115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies