Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Towards Strengthening Scientific Accounting Information: Focus on Environment Accounting System in Hungary

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol 31:2018-2019

Posted: 7 Feb 2019

M. R. K. Swamy

Om Sai Ram Centre for Financial Management Research

Date Written: January 10, 2019

Abstract

The accounting system currently in operation in several developing countries, though imported, cannot be completely written off. There are areas where it needs modification and others where more emphasis has to be placed. Taking into account the dominance of small and private (family) business and over-dependence on multinational corporations, emphasis should be placed on formulating an efficient meaningful and workable system of accounting reporting for these types of businesses, taking the peculiar circumstance, of the developing countries into consideration. Also, the conduct of professionals within the system has a lot of influence on the quality and fairness of financial accounting response. Some of these professionals mortgage their integrity and engage in misconduct which tends to falsify accounting information prepared honestly from their meticulously kept records. Thus the need arises for scientific financial analysis, designed to provide data for decision making models such as portfolio selection, bank lending and corporate financial management as imperfect knowledge of decision-makers behaviour and informational needs hinders the progress of rational financial analysis. The uniquely developed accounting system in Hungary will serve in a guide to other countries to aid prudent/judicious financial decision-making.


Keywords: Scientific Financial Analysis; Hungary Accountancy (Accounting) System

JEL Classification: C81; E61; M41; O52

Suggested Citation:

Swamy, M. R. K., Towards Strengthening Scientific Accounting Information: Focus on Environment Accounting System in Hungary (January 10, 2019). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol 31:2018-2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3322844
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies