Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Kier Group Plc: Business and Financial Performance Analysis and Evaluation

The International Journal of Business Management and Technology, 2 (6), pp. 20-42

23 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019

Paul Eisenberg

University of Derby; University of Portsmouth

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

The subject matter of this paper is the analysis and evaluation of the business and financial performance of the Kier Group Plc over the three year period 2012–2014. The company is analysed against the comparator undertaking Balfour Beatty Plc and the average numbers of the UK and international construction industry.

The financial analysis is performed over the range of financial ratios commonly applied in undergraduate and graduate business studies. For the purposes of the business analysis, the SWOT Model and the PESTEL Framework are used. The research reveals that due to diversified divisions and a high market share the Kier Group Plc is able to generate growing revenues, albeit at the high administrative costs and with an extending operating cycle. Further, revenue growth is not accompanied by improved liquidity. The growing social diversification among residential customers, the steady technological change and the increasing demand for sustainable construction place additional challenges to the Group.

The results obtained are of interest for the construction industry researchers, financial analysts and financial and business analysis students.

Keywords: Financial Ratio Analysis, SWOT Model, PESTEL Framework

JEL Classification: A2, M10, M20, M21, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Eisenberg, Paul, Kier Group Plc: Business and Financial Performance Analysis and Evaluation (November 30, 2018). The International Journal of Business Management and Technology, 2 (6), pp. 20-42, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
M S Abdel-Wahab , A R J Dainty , S G Ison , P Bowen , G Huzlehorst
Trends of skills and productivity in the UK construction industry. Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management , volume 15 , p. 372 - 382 Posted: 2008
Accountant in business
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants -ACCA Posted: 2011
D C A Butcher , M J Sheehan
Excellent contractor performance in the UK construction industry. Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management , volume 17 , p. 35 - 45 Posted: 2009
Robert Carver , Robert Carver
Construction Shortfall and Government Intervention in the UK Private Sector Housing Market
Pages: 14 Posted: 1 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,063
RANK
44,484
1 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Management Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies