Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical and Professional Implications of Blockchain Accounting Ledgers

13 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2019

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: November 30, 2018

Abstract

I propose a framework for Blockchain Accounting Ethics. The area of Blockchain ethics in general has been little studied, with no studies on Blockchain Accounting ethics that I am aware of. I have identified the following preliminary areas of ethical concern: Data privacy and security; power and storage usage; issues related to smart contracts; anti-trust; and taxes. There are major problems with the current accounting model that Blockchain will solve. Current accounting records sit on corporate computer systems that are subject to data corruption. Under Blockchain, transactions are verified at the time of transaction with counterparties, resulting in a reliable time-stamp. Accounting policies and estimates can be permanently embedded into the transaction record, making them free of opportunism by management. Once the record is entered, management cannot alter or destroy it, as an infinite number of exact copies exist on the Blockchain. Blockchain accounting will also enable cheap audits by multiple auditors, which is currently prohibitively expensive.

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, Ethical and Professional Implications of Blockchain Accounting Ledgers (November 30, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3331009 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3331009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D Applebaum , Stein Smith , S
Blockchain basics and hands-on guidance
CPA Journal , p. 28 - 37 Posted: 2018-06
Distributed ledger technology in payment, clearing and settlement: An analytical framework Posted: 2017
C Brown
Corporate America's blockchain and bitcoin fever is over Posted: 2018-11-11
How many copies were originally made of the Declaration of Independence? Were they all signed? Democratic Knowledge Project
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,263
RANK
28,912
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies