Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Procedure of Cash Incentive and Its Role in the RMG Sector in Bangladesh: Evidence from Bangladesh

78 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019

Md. Hossain

KPMG Rahman Rahman Huq

Date Written: February 14, 2019

Abstract

The journey of Ready-Made Garment (RMG) was started in Bangladesh in the late 1970s and still it’s become one of the major earning source in Bangladesh. More than 76% of the total income is generating from RMG. The availability of cheap labor and the export-quotas system are the main reason behind the success in this sector in Bangladesh. After getting independence in 1971, many observers of the newly country took a negative view or opinion about the development prospect of Bangladesh. They thought the country will remain permanently under the poverty line. But the scenery has changed; today more than 90 percent women are connected to the RMG sector for Economic development in Bangladesh. The RMG plays a pivotal role in the economic development in Bangladesh. 4.2 million Of Bangladeshis are employed in RMG sector and 13% of total GDP of nation comes from the RMG sector. To accelerate this RMG sector in Bangladesh, our government provide some facility which help the RMG industrialist to expand the market and contributing more to the economic development. Actually there are three types of facility provided to the RMG exported goods which are; bonded warehouse, duty drawback and cash incentive. To get this type of subsidy from the government some rules and regulation have to maintain. In case of textile sector there are three independent Associations are responsible. Those are Bangladesh Textile Manufacturing Associations (BTMA), where the core responsibility of this association are concentrate on Woven fabrics manufacturing, spinners and dying units; the Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA) which represent on Cutting and sewing units and the Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BKMEA) which represent on Knitwear cutting and sewing, knitwear manufacturer and the fabric dying units.

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Md. Amir, The Procedure of Cash Incentive and Its Role in the RMG Sector in Bangladesh: Evidence from Bangladesh (February 14, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3334383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3334383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Year Export of RMG( In milliom US$)
Total Export of Bangladesh (In million US $)
% of RMG's to Total Export
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
891
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,476
RANK
61,409
1 Citations
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues in Developing Economies eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies