Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious State of Tax Deductions for Fertility Treatment Costs

Southern California Review of Law and Social Justice (Forthcoming)

Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-04

62 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2019

Katherine Pratt

Loyola Law School Los Angeles

Date Written: February 15, 2019

Abstract

The federal tax treatment of assisted reproductive technology (ART) expenses incurred by intended parents is unclear. This lack of clarity in the tax law is curious because millions of intended parents have incurred ART expenses, which typically are quite large, over the past 40 years. ARTs include in vitro fertilization (IVF), intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), egg donation, and surrogacy. This Article addresses the question of whether various categories of taxpayers can classify the costs of specific types of ART expenses as tax deductible “medical care,” taking into account new developments in the law, including the 2017 federal appellate court decision in Morrissey v. United States.

Part I of this Article outlines the contours of the income tax deduction (and related tax benefits) for “medical care,” incorporating the statutory definition of “medical care” and the interpretation of that definition by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and courts. Part II applies the “medical care” definition to expenses incurred by different-sex married couples for specific types of reproductive medical care and ancillary payments. We begin our analysis with this cohort of intended parents because the IRS seems to have had such taxpayers in mind when it initially provided informal advice to taxpayers who incurred fertility treatment costs. Part II then extends the analysis to same-sex couples and unmarried individuals, focusing primarily on the U.S. Tax Court decision in Magdalin v. Commissioner, and briefly summarizing Longino v. Commissioner. In both cases, the court denied fertile unmarried men a medical expense deduction for ART expenses. Part II considers the implications of Magdalin for medically infertile men, married and unmarried women, and married different-sex couples. Part II also articulates a novel argument men could make for deducting some ART costs, notwithstanding Magdalin and Longino.

Part III explains and critiques the Morrissey opinion, which characterized all ARTs as “female” care and held that expenses incurred by a man for ARTs cannot be “medical care” unless the man is married to the woman undergoing ART procedures. This Part notes errors in the court’s tax analysis of ART expenses and dismissal of the taxpayer’s due process and equal protection claims. Part III challenges the court’s surprising assertion that heterosexuals cannot deduct “IVF-related expenses.” This Part also argues that the court’s new “IVF-related expense” terminology erroneously conflates the distinct tax consequences of different types of ARTs and unsettles what previously seemed to be settled parts of the tax law. Noting the Morrissey court’s overt moral objections to “science fiction” ARTs, Part III questions the legal relevance of such opprobrium for tax purposes. In addition, this Part explores the reproductive medical care implications of blatant IRS attempts, in other controversial “medical care” cases, to narrow the scope of the tax definition of “medical care.” Based on Courtney Cahill’s writing on “reproductive binarism,” Part IV critiques Morrissey’s focus on procreative mechanics, instead of procreative intent, and failure to address the significant family formation implications of Obergefell v. Hodges. Part IV also proposes a change in the tax definition of “medical care,” to bring “inherently medical” care – including reproductive medical care – within the tax definition of “medical care,” regardless of the taxpayer’s sex, sexual orientation, or marital status. Part V concludes.

Keywords: medical expense deduction, 213 deduction, medical care, Flexible Spending Account, Health Savings Account, ARTs, assisted reproductive technology, in vitro fertilization, IVF, Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection, ICSI, egg donation, egg donor, surrogate, surrogacy, LGBT, family formation, adoption, Mag

JEL Classification: K34, K36, Z18

Suggested Citation:

Pratt, Katherine, The Curious State of Tax Deductions for Fertility Treatment Costs (February 15, 2019). Southern California Review of Law and Social Justice (Forthcoming), Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-04, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3335420
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
The majority opinion concluded that Gender Identity Disorder (GID) is a "disease" and hormone therapy and gender confirmation surgery are "medical care" because they are medically accepted − albeit morally and ethically controversial − "treatments" for severe GID. O'Donnabhain, 134 T.C. at 59-63, 70. 263 134 T.C. at 110 (citation omitted) (noting, as an example
Id
Cahill Courtney Megan
Obergefell and the "New" Reproduction, 100 MINN
L. REV. HEADNOTES , volume 1 Posted: 2016
Susan Frelich Appleton
Obergefell's Liberties: All in the Family, 77 OHIO ST
L. J , volume 919 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
280
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,725
RANK
249,052
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies