Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
If a Tuition Reduction is Taxable, What’s the Measure of Income?

Journal of Taxation of Investments, Summer 2018, at 63

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-4

9 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2019 Last revised: 27 Mar 2025

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: February 19, 2019

Abstract

This article considers what the measure of income should be if a tuition reduction is taxable, and it challenges the idea that an educational institution’s stated tuition figure should control in that determination. It’s the value of the reduction, not the dollar difference between sticker price and the tuition actually paid by a particular student, that is potentially income, and the article suggests one reasonable method that might be used to determine that value. Although the focus of the article is on tuition reductions, the argument applies just as well to other situations in which a price reduction (or what in form looks like a price reduction) is taxable.

Keywords: qualified tuition reduction, scholarship, Section 117(d), valuation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., If a Tuition Reduction is Taxable, What’s the Measure of Income? (February 19, 2019). Journal of Taxation of Investments, Summer 2018, at 63, Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3338021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4
ABSTRACT VIEWS
939
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies