Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Marriage and the 2017 Tax Reform Law

39 Daily Tax Report 15 (2019)

2 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2019

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: February 28, 2019

Abstract

The law formerly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 made significant changes to tax deductions for individuals, which can adversely affect some married couples compared to their unmarried counterparts.

The article discusses the state and local tax deduction (the same $10,000 annual limit applies to a single person and to a married couple filing jointly), the home mortgage interest deduction, and other marriage penalty instances found in the Act.

The tax law does favor married couples in certain cases, such as greater estate and gift tax exemptions. Marriage may also have some non-financial benefits.

Keywords: marriage, tax reform, state and local taxes, home mortgage interest, Great Divorce Rush of 2018, alimony, divorce

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Marriage and the 2017 Tax Reform Law (February 28, 2019). 39 Daily Tax Report 15 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3346993
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,017
RANK
464,622
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies