Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Family Pluralism and the Right to Have a Family - Revision of Article 14 of the Swiss Constitution

in: Sophie Weerts/Colette Rossat-Favre/Christine Guy-Ecabert/Anne Benoît/Alexandre Flückiger (Ed.), Projet imaginaire de révision de la Constitution fédérale en hommage au Prof. Luzius Mader, Basel 2018, p. 81-82.

Posted: 17 Apr 2019

Melanie Levy

Tel Aviv University - Buchmann Faculty of Law; University of Neuchatel - Faculty of Law

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

The traditional legal concept of “the family” in Switzerland is represented by the nuclear family: a married opposite-sex couple and their biological children. This concept of the family retains considerable influence in framing not only the current form of art. 14 of the Swiss Constitution but also Swiss laws and policies in numerous areas such as social security, immigration, taxes, adoption, and reproductive medicine. It is becoming increasingly distant though from the lived reality of very many Swiss families and their children. In fact, family formation has undergone profound changes over the past decades throughout the Western industrialized world, due to important socio-demographic and social changes and technological innovation in the area of medically assisted reproduction. As a consequence, family forms have become markedly more plural, including unmarried heterosexual couples, same-sex families, and single individuals with children.

Suggested Citation:

Levy, Melanie and Levy, Melanie, Family Pluralism and the Right to Have a Family - Revision of Article 14 of the Swiss Constitution (2018). in: Sophie Weerts/Colette Rossat-Favre/Christine Guy-Ecabert/Anne Benoît/Alexandre Flückiger (Ed.), Projet imaginaire de révision de la Constitution fédérale en hommage au Prof. Luzius Mader, Basel 2018, p. 81-82., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3356421
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
583
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative & Non-U.S. Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies