Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recommitment to Advancing Tax Ethics

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(1): 1-29 (2019)

29 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2019

Joe Krupka

Georgia State University; Savannah State University

Date Written: March 21, 2019

Abstract

The ethical environment in which tax professionals operate is multifaceted whereby the profession’s responsibilities include honesty, competence, objectivity along with compliance with tax laws. In the recent past there has been an ethical crisis within the tax profession, as excessive cases of ethical failures have weakened the tax profession in the eyes of the public. These ethical dilemmas arise from the stress inherent between serving the client and upholding the public interest.

Tax professionals are required to accept the obligation to act in a way that will serve the public interest and exhibit a responsibility to the profession. Our voluntary compliance-based system functions on the public’s perception that all tax professionals have their ethical obligations at the forefront of their professional attention. Compliance to essential ethical principles may potentially be affected by self-interest, self-review, advocacy, familiarity and intimidation threats. In resolving those conflicts, a tax professional should comply with five ethical principles: Integrity, Objectivity, Competence, Confidentiality, and Professional Behavior.

Collaboration between academia and the tax profession has been slowly advancing over the past several years. The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business has encouraged that accounting education embrace ethics in its curricula. Tax ethics research remains a challenging arena to produce practice driven benefits to the tax profession. This paper will present assertions to heighten ethical initiatives for tax professionals to assist in restoring public confidence and the advancement of ethical tax professionals. This undertaking can manifest into a rededication to ethical professionalism to enhance its future.

Keywords: tax ethics, tax professionals, academia, ethical principles

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Krupka, Joe and Krupka, Joe, Recommitment to Advancing Tax Ethics (March 21, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(1): 1-29 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3357984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Krupka
Recommitment to Advancing Tax Ethics 26 and Manage Tax Risks
The Tax Advisor , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 158 - 162 Posted: 2006
D Bodkin , T Stevenson
University Students' Perceptions Regarding Ethical Marketing Practices: Affecting Change Through Instructional Techniques
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 72 , issue 3 , p. 207 - 228 Posted: 2007
Crossref
P Bourdieu
Social Space and Symbolic Power
Sociological Theory , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 14 - 25 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J Cohen , L Holder-Webb
Rethinking the Influence of Agency Theory in The Accounting Academy
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 21 , p. 17 - 30 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
891
RANK
552,835
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies