Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Supreme Court, Due Process and State Income Taxation of Trusts

67 UCLA Law Review Discourse 2 (2019)

17 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Michelle S. Simon

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: March 22, 2019

Abstract

What are the constitutional limits on a state’s power to tax a trust with no connection to the state, other than the accident that a beneficiary lives there? The Supreme Court of the United States will take up this question this term in the context of North Carolina v. Kimberley Rice Kaestner 1992 Family Trust. The case involves North Carolina’s income taxation of a trust with a contingent beneficiary, meaning someone who is eligible, but not certain, to receive a distribution or benefit from the trust, who resides in that State. Part I of this Essay explains the background of Kaestner Trust and frames the constitutional questions that will be before the Court at oral arguments on April 16, 2019. Part II examines how and why due process applies in the state income taxation context, with a particular emphasis on how familiar concepts of general and specific jurisdiction apply uneasily to donative trusts. Part III articulates the reasons that the Court should hold that a State has no constitutional authority to impose a tax on trust income where the trust’s only connection with the forum State is the residence of a contingent beneficiary. Kaestner Trust is the most important due process case involving trusts that the Court has decided in over sixty years; it bears directly on the fundamental meaning of due process.

Keywords: due process, tax, income tax, trusts, state income tax, general jurisdiction, specific jurisdiction

JEL Classification: K1, K10, K22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Bridget J. and Simon, Michelle S., The Supreme Court, Due Process and State Income Taxation of Trusts (March 22, 2019). 67 UCLA Law Review Discourse 2 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3358502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
N C
Dep't of Revenue v. Kimberly Rice Kaestner 1992 Family Tr Posted: 2019
Monthly Argument Calendar] for the Session Beginning Posted: 2019-04-15
The last significant trust case involving state due process claims was Hanson v Posted: 1958
See infra Part I
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,337
RANK
347,495
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Separation of Powers & Federalism eJournal

Follow

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies