Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing Distributed Ledgers: Blockchain and Beyond

58 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019 Last revised: 10 Jun 2022

Rainer Lenz

University of Applied Sciences, Bielefeld

Date Written: March 26, 2019

Abstract

The Internet of Value based on Distributed Ledger Technology strives for a strictly decentralised organisation of interactivities between peers without any centralised platform or intermediary. The technology is disruptive because core elements of the current organisation of value exchange will change radically. This applies in particular to four areas: (1) Proof of identity of customers, of clients, of users, of patients and the associated handling of private data; (2) Recording, documenting and certifying transactions, the change of value and entrepreneurial success; (3) Organisation of the value exchange and the transfer of values and utilities; (4) Integration of ob-jects, of machines and of robots in communication and transaction processes.

Distributed Ledger Technology is therefore not an innovation which comes overnight. The diffusion period takes longer – probably years or a decade – as radical changes within society are needed before distributed and shared ledgers become standard. Many technological aspects are not yet fully developed, so that the DLT is currently still in experimental mode. But the cases of use so far already show that the technology has the potential to revolutionize the nominal world of registration, certification, accounting and exchange of digital value and thereby enable completely new forms of collaboration and organization.


Keywords: Distributed Ledger Technology, Blockchain, Tokens, ICOs, Cryptoassets, Distributed Ledgers, DLT

JEL Classification: L14, L16, L17, L20, M4

Suggested Citation:

Lenz, Rainer, Managing Distributed Ledgers: Blockchain and Beyond (March 26, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3360655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Digital transformation of corporate business: from central to decentral
Common features of peer-to-peer businesses
Distributed Ledger Technology as facilitator of
Distributed Ledger Technology: Internet of Value
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,263
RANK
257,421
11 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies