Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS 9 Expected Loss: A Model Proposal for Estimating the Probability of Default for Non-Rated Companies

33 Pages Posted: 22 May 2019

David Delgado-Vaquero

EY

José Morales-Díaz

Universidad Complutense

Constancio Zamora-Ramírez

University of Seville

Date Written: April 2, 2019

Abstract

Under the IFRS 9 impairment model, entities must estimate the PD (Probability of Default) for all financial assets (and other elements) not measured at fair value through profit or loss. There are several methodologies for estimating this PD from market or historical information. However, in some cases entities do not possess market or historical information concerning a counterparty. For such cases, we propose a model called Financial Ratios Scoring (FRS), by means of which an entity can obtain a “shadow rating” for a counterparty as a first step in estimating the PD. The model differentiates from other recent models in several aspects, such as the size of the database and the fact that it is focused on non-rated companies, for example. It is based on scoring the counterparty according to its key financial ratios. The score will place the counterparty on a percentile within a previously constructed sector distribution using companies with a credit rating published by rating agencies or financial vendors. We have tested the model reliability by calculating the internal credit rating of several companies (which have an official/quoted credit rating), and by comparing the rating obtained with the official one, and obtained positive results.

Keywords: IFRS 9, Impairment of Financial Assets, Probability of Default, Credit Rating

JEL Classification: C13, G33, C63, M41

Suggested Citation:

Delgado-Vaquero, David and Morales-Díaz, José and Zamora-Ramírez, Constancio, IFRS 9 Expected Loss: A Model Proposal for Estimating the Probability of Default for Non-Rated Companies (April 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364451 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364451
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W Alissa , S B Bonsall , K Koharki , M W Penn
Firms' use of accounting discretion to influence their credit ratings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 55 , p. 129 - 147 Posted: 2013
Crossref
E I Altman
Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Prediction of Corporate Bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
Crossref
E I Altman , R G Haldeman , P Narayanan
ZETA TM analysis. A new model to identify bankruptcy risk of corporations
Journal of Banking & Finance , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 54 Posted: 1977
Crossref
E I Altman , B Brady , A Resti , &amp; A Sironi
The Link Between Default and Recovery Rates: Theory, Empirical Evidence, and Implications
Journal of Business , volume 78 , issue 6 , p. 2203 - 2228 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,072
RANK
214,632
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies