Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $45
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Age of the Home Worker – Part 2: Calculation of Home Occupancy Expense Deductions, Deduction Apportionment and Partial Loss of CGT Main Residence Exemption

Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 34(1), 2019

29 Pages Posted: 2 May 2019

Kathrin Bain

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Dale Boccabella

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: January 4, 2019

Abstract

This article is related to, and builds on, an earlier article “The Age of the Home Worker – Part 1: Deductibility of Home Occupancy Expenses”. The earlier article identified the potential expenses incurred by home workers — home occupancy and home running expenses, and then provided an in‑depth discussion of the deductibility of home office occupancy expenses. This article deals with the measurement of deductions for home occupancy expenses, and in this, appropriate apportionment methodologies are analysed. The article also deals with the problematic question of the amount of the deduction for the home worker where the relevant occupancy expense is jointly incurred, with a partner, spouse or another party. The article also analyses the capital gains tax rule that partially withdraws the full main residence exemption where home occupancy expense deductions are available or are notionally available. Considerable complexity and anomalies arise under the exemption withdrawal rule where a dwelling is jointly owned.

Suggested Citation:

Bain, Kathrin and Boccabella, Dale, The Age of the Home Worker – Part 2: Calculation of Home Occupancy Expense Deductions, Deduction Apportionment and Partial Loss of CGT Main Residence Exemption (January 4, 2019). Australian Tax Forum, Vol. 34(1), 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364724
Purchase - $45
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
6
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies