Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lecturer Certification in the Perspective of Performance Measurement Systems and Mental Models

The 2nd International Conference in Accounting& Management Education, Research and Practice (ICAMERP 2015) 8-10 January 2015, Hotel Supreme, Baguio City, Philippines

20 Pages Posted: 3 May 2019

Fransiskus E. Daromes

Universitas Atma Jaya Makassar

Date Written: January 8, 2015

Abstract

Lecturer Certification is a process and forms of recognition of a faculty member associated with qualification, competence and contribution that deserve to be called a professional lecturer. This study aims to empirically examine the effect of certification on faculty members in the perspective of performance measurement systems to psychological empowerment and mental model building and subsequent impact on the performance of the lecturer. The research model was built on the basis of goal setting theory. We collected data using a mail survey on lecturers who have been certified in the province of South Sulawesi, Indonesia. The selection of respondents was based on the consideration that the respondent has experienced the whole certification process and have benefited directly and carry out the legal consequences of the certification. Data analysis was conducted using structural equation modeling. The results showed that the measurement system on lecturers certification have both positive and significant relationship to the dimensions of psychological empowerment and the mental models. Furthermore, mental models have positive and significant influence on the performance of the lecturer. Similarly, the dimensions of psychological empowerment were positively related to managerial performance, but only the dimension of meaning that have a significant effect. The research findings reveal importance of behavioral aspects in deciding lecturer certification systems during the certification process and the implementation. Furthermore, this paper contributes to the literature on lecturer certification, performance measurement systems, and mental models

Keywords: Lecturer Certification, performance measurement systems, mental model, and psychological empowerment, lecturers’ performance

Suggested Citation:

Daromes, Fransiskus E., Lecturer Certification in the Perspective of Performance Measurement Systems and Mental Models (January 8, 2015). The 2nd International Conference in Accounting& Management Education, Research and Practice (ICAMERP 2015) 8-10 January 2015, Hotel Supreme, Baguio City, Philippines, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3364034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3364034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
R D Banker , D Srinivasan
An empirical investigation of an incentive plant that includes nonfinancial performance measures
The Accounting Review , volume 75 , issue 1 , p. 65 - 92 Posted: 2000
Crossref
F Collins
Managerial accounting systems and organizational control: A role perspective. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 7 , p. 107 - 112 Posted: 1982
Crossref
J A Conger , R N Kanungo
The empowerment process: Integrating theory and practice
Management Review , volume 13 , p. 471 - 482 Posted: 1988
Crossref
D R Cox , N J H Small
Testing multivariate normality
Biometrika , volume 65 , p. 263 - 272 Posted: 1978
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
797
RANK
906,353
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies