Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The FASB’s Sabotage of Congressional Policy and Federal Securities Laws

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(1): 31-75 (2019).

45 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2019

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

Date Written: April 8, 2019

Abstract

The Securities Exchange Commission (hereinafter “SEC” or “Commission”) was created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and given exclusive authority to “make, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this title including rules and regulations governing registration statements and prospectuses for various classes of securities and issuers [and] to prescribe the form or forms in which required information shall be set forth, the items or details to be shown in the balance sheet and earning statement, and the methods to be followed in the preparation of accounts”.

From 1973 to 2002 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (hereinafter “FASB”), a private not-for-profit corporation, was recognized by the SEC to make, amend, and rescind rules defining accounting and prescribing the form in which the required accounting information must be set forth in in the balance sheet and earning statement even though the SEC was not specifically authorized by law to recognize a private standard-setting body. In 2002 the SEC was specifically authorized by the Sarbanes Oxley Act to recognize private standard-setting bodies provided the standard-setting body met certain conditions. In 2002 the SEC recognized the FASB as the only private standard-setting body to develop accounting standards (“GAAP”).

This article argues and documents that from 1973 to the present the FASB has sabotaged the purpose for which the securities laws were enacted as well as Congressional policy to protect the nation from national emergencies caused by sudden and unreasonable fluctuations in the prices of securities which put the Federal Government to great expense, burdens the national credit, produces widespread unemployment, causes the dislocation of trade, transportation, and industry, burdens interstate commerce, and adversely affect the general welfare. Moreover, this article further argues that the SEC has been complicit in the FASB’s sabotage of the securities laws which the SEC was created to enforce, as well as that of Congressional policy that created the SEC.

The FASB’s sabotage of Congressional policy and securities laws clearly encompasses public policy issues, as does the SEC’s complicity in the FASB’s sabotage.



Note: Since the accounting issues discussed herein deal with legal issues, the article is written in a format appropriate for law.

Keywords: FASB, Securities Act of 1933, Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Securities Exchange Commission, Conceptual Framework

JEL Classification: K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The FASB’s Sabotage of Congressional Policy and Federal Securities Laws (April 8, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy 20(1): 31-75 (2019)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368490
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
2 Citations
Wm. Dennis Huber
The FASB Conceptual Framework – A Case of the Emperor’s New Clothes
Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, 21(1), 77-114 (2020). · 38 Pages · Posted: 13 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 27 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 150
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wm. Dennis Huber
The FASB Conceptual Framework – A Case of the Emperor’s New Clothes
Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 21(1): 77-114, 2020 · 38 Pages · Posted: 21 Apr 2020 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,284
RANK
759,919
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies