Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Arbitration in the Resolution of Tax Disputes

5 Pages Posted: 9 May 2019

Mariam Omotosho

Association of Young Arbitrators

Date Written: April 10, 2019

Abstract

One of the major issues in the globalization of commercial transactions is the issue of taxation. Despite the execution of Double Taxation Treaties (DTTs) by most countries and the enactment of Conventions by world Organizations, sovereign states are still struggling with amicable resolution of cross-border taxation disputes.

This article discusses the nexus between taxation and arbitration, and subsequently the various issues affecting resolution of cross-border disputes involving taxation, particularly in relation to arbitration.

Keywords: Taxation, Cross-border, Disputes, Arbitration, OECD, UN, DTTs

Suggested Citation:

Omotosho, Mariam, Role of Arbitration in the Resolution of Tax Disputes (April 10, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3369855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3369855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,128
RANK
290,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies