Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up Partnerships

Tax Notes, Mar. 11, 2019, pp. 1171-1174

4 Pages Posted: 14 May 2019

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: March 11, 2019

Abstract

Marie Kondo’s best-selling book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up, promotes an increasingly popular way of organizing one’s personal possessions. Using the KonMari method, a person should gather together all of his or her belongings, keep only those things that “spark joy,” thank the items being discarded for their past service, and choose a proper place for the items remaining.

A similar approach can be applied by organizations that have many partnerships and other tax entities, such as real estate companies. An organization may consider the ZhanLibi method to review each partnership or other tax entity, and thank the unwanted entities before merging them away or converting them to disregarded entities for income tax purposes.

Structural simplification can be particularly helpful in dealing with the section 199A passthrough business income deduction and the section 163(j) business interest deduction limitation, as enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

Keywords: simplification, tax simplification, 199A, 163(j), tidying up

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up Partnerships (March 11, 2019). Tax Notes, Mar. 11, 2019, pp. 1171-1174, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3370489
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
231
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,146
RANK
302,340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies