Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Executive Incentive Design Affects Risk-Taking: A Literature Review

54 Pages Posted: 15 May 2019 Last revised: 18 Dec 2020

Niklas Kreilkamp

University of Giessen

Sascha Matanovic

University of Giessen

Maximilian Schmidt

University of Giessen

Arnt Wöhrmann

Justus-Liebig-University Giessen

Date Written: December 16, 2020

Abstract

Firms use monetary incentives to motivate employees to act in the firms’ interest, i.e., to increase effort and to align their risk-taking with the firm. Whereas Bonner and Sprinkle (2002) review and discuss research on how monetary incentives affect effort and performance, we examine the effects of risk-taking. Ultimately, when designing executives’ incentive systems, it is crucial to consider the potential effects on both, effort and risk-taking. Hence, the purpose of this literature review is to systematically present and review research findings regarding the effects of monetary executive incentives on risk-taking. We distinguish between different forms of incentive design and provide a framework for understanding their impact on risk-taking. Further, implications for incentive system design in practice as well as paths for future research are discussed. On the one hand, we provide suggestions on how to increase employee risk-taking and reduce loss-aversive behavior when risk-taking is too low. On the other hand, we discuss instruments that prevent employees from taking excessive risks.

Keywords: risk-taking, risk behavior, compensation system, management control systems

JEL Classification: M12, M41, M52

Suggested Citation:

Kreilkamp, Niklas and Matanovic, Sascha and Schmidt, Maximilian and Wöhrmann, Arnt, How Executive Incentive Design Affects Risk-Taking: A Literature Review (December 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3373121 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3373121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
107 References
T M Alessandri , J Mammen , K Eddleston
Managerial incentives, myopic loss aversion, and firm risk: A comparison of family and non-family firms
Journal of Business Research , volume 91 , p. 19 - 27 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Anantharaman , V W Fang , G Gong
Inside debt and the design of corporate debt contracts
Management Science , volume 60 , p. 1260 - 1280 Posted: 2014
Crossref
J D Anderson , J E Core
Managerial incentives to increase risk provided by debt, stock, and options
Management Science , volume 64 , p. 4408 - 4432 Posted: 2018
Crossref
C S Armstrong , R Vashishtha
Executive stock options, differential risk-taking incentives, and firm value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 104 , p. 70 - 88 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
448
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,767
RANK
147,906
1 Citations
107 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies