Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Turning Standards into Rules Part 1: Using Machine Learning to Predict Tax Outcomes

182 DTR 10 (Bloomberg BNA) 2018

2 Pages Posted: 22 May 2019

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Date Written: September 19, 2018

Abstract

Technological advancements in the last 10 years have made it possible to explore the application of data driven tools to the legal field. The problem, however, is that law is full of grey areas. Tax law in particular can be a very uncertain field, often precisely because of the many rules and standards that are supposed to provide lawyers and judges with guidance. Rules are a challenge because of their intricate specificity. Standards, on the other hand, are difficult because of their amorphousness. In terms of standards, tax lawyers must characterize relationships, instruments, and entities to help their clients comply with the law. Prediction regarding characterization is an essential legal skill: in order to advise on compliance or prepare for litigation, tax lawyers must be able to predict how the courts will characterize their client’s situation. However, legal predictions are limited by human judgment. Even the most careful lawyer’s predictions can be inaccurate in any number of ways: they may be based on overly broad rules of thumb, biased by individual experiences, or influenced by the interests of clients. But recent advances in machine learning provide lawyers with an opportunity to use these powerful new tools to support their predictions. By analyzing the facts and outcomes of past cases, machine learning algorithms can find hidden patterns in the existing data to predict the outcome of new scenarios.

Keywords: machine-learning, tax, legal prediction

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H29

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin, Turning Standards into Rules Part 1: Using Machine Learning to Predict Tax Outcomes (September 19, 2018). 182 DTR 10 (Bloomberg BNA) 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374042
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
296,145
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies