Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The TCJA and the Questionable Incentive to Incorporate, Part 2

Tax Notes, March 25, 2019, p. 1447.

U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 19-15

17 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2019

Michael S. Knoll

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School; University of Pennsylvania Wharton School -- Real Estate Department

Date Written: March 25, 2019

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) has put the question should a business be organized as a passthrough entity or as a corporation at center stage. The TCJA eliminated much of the tax disadvantage from using the corporate form, but did Congress go so far that it advantaged corporations relative to pass-through entities? Some prominent commentators say yes. They argue that the federal income tax now encourages individual owners of pass-through businesses to restructure their business as subchapter C corporations, and they predict that the TCJA will lead to a cascade of incorporations. The principal driver of the shift to the corporate form is said to be high-bracket owners of successful businesses using their new corporations as “pocket books” through which to invest in and hold portfolio assets that they would otherwise hold on personal account. The benefit is the deferral of the personal tax on such income and hence a reduction in the present value of that tax. The first essay of a two-part series argues that there generally are no tax benefits from converting and investing in portfolio assets through a corporation because the corporate tax on the invested income more than compensates for the deferral of the individual level tax on that income. This essay, the second essay of a two-part series, extends the argument to consider other provisions in the tax law that could potentially change that result. After considering a range of other tax provisions and other possible drives for incorporation, this essay argues that any benefits from converting from a passthrough entity to a C corporation at present are modest at best.

Keywords: Federal income taxation, tax reform, Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, TCJA, passthrough entities, mass conversion, C corporations, comparison, statutory tax rates, rate changes, passthrough deduction, potential tax advantages of incorporation, business reinvestment, tax risk from incorporation

JEL Classification: H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Knoll, Michael S., The TCJA and the Questionable Incentive to Incorporate, Part 2 (March 25, 2019). Tax Notes, March 25, 2019, p. 1447., U of Penn, Inst for Law & Econ Research Paper No. 19-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3376135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,522
RANK
549,213
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies