Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysing and Comparing Warrantless Tax Inspections and Searches

Potchefstroom Electronic Law Journal, Vol. 22, 2019

33 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2019

Fareed Moosa

University of the Western Cape

Date Written: April 23, 2019

Abstract

Sections 45 and 63 of the Tax Administration Act 28 of 2011 (TAA) confer drastic information gathering powers on officials of the South African Revenue Service (SARS). On the one hand, section 45 permits warrantless routine (non-targeted) and non-routine (targeted) inspections by a SARS official in respect of records, books of accounts and documents found at premises where a taxpayer is reasonably believed to be conducting a trade or enterprise. The purpose of such inspection is to determine whether there has been compliance with specific obligations by the taxpayer. Section 63, on the other hand, permits, on the grounds of urgency and expediency in exceptional circumstances only, warrantless non-routine (targeted) searches by a senior SARS official of a taxpayer and of third parties associated with a taxpayer, as well as searches of a taxpayer's premises and those of third parties. In addition, section 63 permits the seizure of relevant material found at premises searched. All searches and seizures must occur for the purposes of the efficient and effective administration of tax Acts generally. A comparative analysis of sections 45 and 63 of the TAA reveals the existence of key differences in the substance and practical operation of their provisions. This article distils these differences through an in-depth discussion of the nature and extent of the powers of inspection and search conferred by these provisions, as well as by conceptualising the terms “inspection” and “search” for the purposes of sections 45 and 63 respectively.

Keywords: Tax Administration Act, inspections, searches, tax law

Suggested Citation:

Moosa, Fareed, Analysing and Comparing Warrantless Tax Inspections and Searches (April 23, 2019). Potchefstroom Electronic Law Journal, Vol. 22, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3377118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
V Basdeo
The Constitutional Validity of Search and Seizure Powers in South African Criminal Procedure , p. 307 - 331 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Botha Statutory Interpretation Botha CJ Statutory Interpretation: An Introduction for Students , volume 5 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Van Bovijn , ; Schalkwyk , S Stell Lr Bovijn , Van Schalkwyk , L
Concerns Regarding New Search and Seizure Powers Granted to SARS in terms of the Tax Administration Act Posted: 2012
Stell
, p. 507 - 526
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Werner Uys , Liezel Tredoux
Cataloging The Commissioner's "Thumbprints" -Items the South African Revenue Service can Seize from a Taxpayer
OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, 18 (01), 77-92, 2025 · 16 Pages · Posted: 16 Dec 2024 · Downloads: 43
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,036
RANK
730,413
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies