Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Transfer Tax Tale of Disenfranchised U.S. Citizens

Ambrosio, F. (2019). The Transfer Tax Tale of Disenfranchised U.S. Citizens. Journal of Financial Planning, 32(5): 35-37.

12 Pages Posted: 14 May 2019 Last revised: 4 Aug 2022

Fabio Ambrosio

East Texas A&M - Dallas

Date Written: May 1, 2019

Abstract

This article is a primer on estate tax planning for persons who acquired U.S. citizenship by birth in Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands. It offers important planning alternatives for those individuals who are adversely impacted by recent legislative changes as well as a formula that can be used to compute the optimal mix of wealth to be kept in the United States vs. abroad.

Over the past few decades a combination of technical amendments to the Internal Revenue Code has effectively disenfranchised those persons who acquired U.S. citizenship by birth in certain U.S. possessions, discouraging them from investing in the United States and incentivizing them to keep wealth offshore. The transfer tax regime, as it currently stands, is more advantageous to such persons if they hold assets outside the United States, while it taxes more heavily those who hold assets within the United States.

This article focuses on this disenfranchising effect, where disenfranchising is intended as the point where persons who acquired U.S. citizenship by birth in certain U.S. possessions begin faring worse than any other U.S. citizen in the same situation, as if they were taxed as second-class citizens. While most of the discussion refers to the estate tax and to Puerto Rico, the content is just as applicable to the gift tax and to persons who acquired U.S. citizenship by birth in Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana Islands.

Keywords: Puerto Rico, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, Estate Tax, Estate Planning, IRC 2208, IRC 2209

Suggested Citation:

Ambrosio, Fabio, The Transfer Tax Tale of Disenfranchised U.S. Citizens (May 1, 2019). Ambrosio, F. (2019). The Transfer Tax Tale of Disenfranchised U.S. Citizens. Journal of Financial Planning, 32(5): 35-37., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381698
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
All references to
Guam and Puerto Rico were acquired through the Treaty of Paris on Posted: 1899-04-11
The U.S. Virgin Islands were acquired through the Treaty of the Danish West Indies on Posted: 1917-03-31
Guam and Puerto Rico were acquired through the Treaty of Paris on Posted: 1899-04-11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
84
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,168
RANK
692,613
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies