Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Lawyers as Tax Insurance

60 William & Mary Law Review 2111 (2019)

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 357

75 Pages Posted: 14 May 2019 Last revised: 23 Oct 2019

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: April 16, 2019

Abstract

Transactional tax lawyers, by rendering tax opinions, provide a version of insurance to clients. This insurance is clearly incomplete, but by providing a tax opinion, a lawyer conditionally agrees to indemnify the client for at least part of the potential loss the client incurs if the favorable tax treatment described in the opinion is successfully challenged. Although insurance is not the primary function of transactional tax lawyers, and although this Article does not argue that tax opinions should be regulated as insurance, indemnification — a key element of insurance — is an important part of the economic relationship between a client and a lawyer who provides a tax opinion. Surprisingly, this insurance-like function has been largely overlooked in the literature. Thus, by identifying and exploring the insurance-like aspect of the transactional tax lawyer’s role, this Article fills a gap in the literature and offers a new framework for understanding the value of tax lawyers. Additionally, this Article argues that the insurance-like aspect of tax opinions has important implications for the profession, potentially affecting tax advisers’ billing practices, the terms of client engagements, the design of tax opinions, the market for tax advice, and more.

Keywords: tax, tax opinions, tax insurance, malpractice, transactional lawyers, transactional tax, tax indemnity, tax practice, legal profession

JEL Classification: K34, K39

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., Tax Lawyers as Tax Insurance (April 16, 2019). 60 William & Mary Law Review 2111 (2019), UC Hastings Research Paper No. 357, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3381707
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Id
ALAS cites seventeen tax shelter claims involving tax opinions accounting for "nearly $45 million of ALAS's $70 million total incurred cost on tax claims during [the five years leading up to the Posted: 2011-12
See Baker & Swedloff, supra note 253
and Aon's "Professional Services practice represents more large professional service firms than any other broker in the world
Professional Services, AON RISK SOLS
A L Richmond Et
Aon's law firm clients "may reasonably be classified as large law firms, but [they] also serve numerous midsized firms, as well as some boutique firms
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
196
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
RANK
354,141
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies