Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Fiscal Administrative Act in the Romanian Tax System

RAIS Conference Proceedings - The 12th International RAIS Conference on Social Sciences & Humanities

6 Pages Posted: 16 May 2019

Alice Cristina Maria Zdanovschi

Dimitrie Cantemir Christian University

Date Written: April 25, 2019

Abstract

Through this article we want to present the role of the fiscal administrative act in the Romanian tax system. Thus, we will define the fiscal administrative act and other institutions specific to the Romanian tax system, such as the administration of fiscal burdens by the tax authorities or the procedure for communicating the fiscal administrative act. Also, we will present the legal effects produced by this act, its traits and its conditions of form and substance, as well as its role in the Romanian tax system.

Keywords: Fiscal Administrative Act, Fiscality, Romanian Tax System, Legal Effects, Tax Authorities

Suggested Citation:

Zdanovschi, Alice Cristina Maria, The Role of the Fiscal Administrative Act in the Romanian Tax System (April 25, 2019). RAIS Conference Proceedings - The 12th International RAIS Conference on Social Sciences & Humanities, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3388078 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3388078
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Tanţi Anghel , Mihai Bragaru
Cilibiu, Octavia Maria and Ioana Victor Cristian. The notion of fiscal administrative act in the light of the new Code of Fiscal Procedure, article in the Journal -Annals of
Fiscal Procedure Code. Annotated. Bucharest: Rosetti Publishing House , volume 4 Posted: 2006
Adrian Fanu-Moca
Posted: 2006
Adrian Fanu-Moca
Fiscal Contentious. Second Edition. Bucharest: C. H Posted: 2013
Crossref
Horaţiu Sasu , Ţâţu Lucian , Pătroi Dragoş
Civil decision no 433R /02.10.2014, Ilfov Tribunal, Civil Section. Government Ordinance no 92/2003 regarding the Code of Fiscal Procedure, repealed, republished in the Official Gazette of Romania no 513 of
Tax Procedure Code. Comments and Explanations. Bucharest: C. H. Beck Publishing House Posted: 2007-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
897
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies