Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cannabis Businesses and Passthrough Deduction Availability

TAX NOTES, APRIL 8, 2019

13 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Daniel Rowe

Loyola Law School Los Angeles

Date Written: April 8, 2019

Abstract

Thirty-three states, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico, have legalized the sale of marijuana and the national trends favor expanding legalization. Many experts predict exponential growth for the legal cannabis industry in the coming years, as well as the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs. Despite legalization and the economic opportunities it creates, cannabis businesses face a tremendous obstacle to success and growth in the form of the federal tax code. The fact that marijuana is legal at the state level, but remains illegal under federal law, creates an inherent tension for cannabis businesses, and federal tax treatment of these businesses exemplifies this tension. While cannabis businesses may be operating legally under the laws of their home state, marijuana’s illegality under federal law has a punitive tax effect because of section 280E. There are specific policy proposals that would eliminate this punitive effect for state-legal cannabis businesses.4 However, until these proposals are adopted, or marijuana is legalized for federal purposes, the tension remains with dramatic effect.

While the application of section 280E imposes a significant tax burden on cannabis businesses by taxing their gross income, owners of cannabis businesses that are operating in passthrough form (partnerships and S corporations) or as sole proprietorships may be able to find some relief in the newly enacted section 199A deduction for qualified business income (QBI).

However, cannabis business owners must overcome multiple hurdles before they can use the section 199A deduction. These hurdles include the application of section 280E itself, the specified service trade or business (SSTB) classification, and the wage and property basis limitations of section 199A. As this article explains, the second and third hurdles do not come into play when the cannabis passthrough owner’s taxable income is below a specific level. The second hurdle arises for medical marijuana sellers, but not for sellers of non-medical (recreational) marijuana. Finally, the third hurdle may be insurmountable for pure retailers, while businesses that produce marijuana may be able to overcome it to some degree.

Keywords: cannabis, marijuana, 280E, tax, 199A, QBI, passthrough deduction

JEL Classification: K34, Z18, K10, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rowe, Daniel, Cannabis Businesses and Passthrough Deduction Availability (April 8, 2019). TAX NOTES, APRIL 8, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Id
, p. 26 - 27
Crossref
Id
, p. 112 - 115
See preamble to section 199A , p. 20 - 21
The section 446(d) guidance is useful for cannabis businesses to consider, both for section 199A as well as section 280E purposes
Reg. section , volume 1 , issue d , p. 446 - 447
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,687
RANK
241,875
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies