Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Case of Section 461(l): Why This Unclear and Unwise New Rule Should Be Construed as Narrowly as Possible

The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 73, No. 1, pp 61-164, Fall 2019

104 Pages Posted: 21 May 2019 Last revised: 5 Dec 2019

Steven Z. Hodaszy

Robert Morris University

Date Written: May 16, 2019

Abstract

Section 461(l) is one of the more curious provisions of the sweeping Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was enacted at the end of 2017. Section 461(l) prohibits owners of non-C-corporation businesses from offsetting trade-or-business losses above a certain threshold against nonbusiness income in the taxable year of the loss. Under the new rule, such “excess business losses” are instead carried over to the next taxable year as a net operating loss. The “excess” losses that section 461(l) disallows are active business losses—that is, losses borne by material participants in the business in question. This marks a significant change from prior law, under which active business losses were generally deductible against nonbusiness income without limit. In the first instance, section 461(l) is curious because it introduces a substantial new tax burden on small-business owners—in direct contradiction to Congress’s oft-stated goal of supporting small business. What makes the new loss limitation even more perplexing is that it serves no useful policy purpose whatsoever. Instead, section 461(l)’s excess-business-loss limitation violates a foundational income tax precept by preventing a taxpayer from netting all of the costs of producing income against gross receipts. In so doing, the new rule causes such a taxpayer to be taxed on an amount greater than her economic income. Indeed, in some cases, it requires a taxpayer to pay federal income tax even though she incurs an economic loss for the year. On top of all that, there are myriad ambiguities in section 461(l)’s language, which make it nearly impossible to tell how the rule actually works in a number of situations. After describing the basic mechanics of section 461(l), this Article examines in detail the most significant interpretive uncertainties that plague the provision. Next, the Article explains why section 461(l) is bad public policy. Ultimately, the Article argues that section 461(l) should be repealed as soon as possible—but it also recognizes that an immediate repeal of the provision may be politically unlikely. Thus, in the meantime, the Article suggests specific interpretations that would resolve section 461(l)’s ambiguities and apply the excess-business-loss limitation as narrowly as possible. Adopting the interpretations proposed herein would not be enough to solve all of the problems inherent in section 461(l). Only a complete repeal could do that. But adopting the narrowest reasonable construction of the provision will at least limit the harm that the misguided new rule can do for so long as it remains in effect.

©2019. Published in The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 73, No. 1, Fall 2019, by the American Bar Association. Reproduced with permission. All rights reserved. This information or any portion thereof may not be copied or disseminated in any form or by any means or stored in an electronic database or retrieval system without the express written consent of the American Bar Association or the copyright holder.


Keywords: Tax, TCJA, Section 461(l), Excess Business Loss

Suggested Citation:

Hodaszy, Steven Z., The Curious Case of Section 461(l): Why This Unclear and Unwise New Rule Should Be Construed as Narrowly as Possible (May 16, 2019). The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 73, No. 1, pp 61-164, Fall 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3389335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3389335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Moreover, even the pre-TCJA limitation on excess farm losses under section 461(j) is arguably directed-at least in part-at deterring tax shelter activity. See supra notes 323-324 and accompanying text
Starczewski &amp; Booken
Prior to the enactment of section 461(l), "a taxpayer could deduct active business losses against nonbusiness income (as long as the other loss deduction limitations (e.g., basis, at-risk) did not apply) , volume 17
&amp; Chirelstein , Zelenak
at Posted: 1951
Hymel
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
396
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,799
RANK
170,582
1 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies