Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The FASB Conceptual Framework – A Case of the Emperor’s New Clothes

Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, 21(1), 77-114 (2020).

38 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2019 Last revised: 27 Mar 2020

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 7, 2019

Abstract

All introductory economics textbooks proffer essentially the same definition of economics. “Economics is the study of the allocation of scarce resources…” (Worstall, 2015; Yuille, 2015). The methods and fora for allocating limited or scarce resources are determined and constrained by the legal structure of society (Banner, 2011).

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) exploits this basic definition of economics in its “Conceptual Framework,” the stated purpose of which is to provide guidance for developing accounting standards: “…the Statements [of Financial Accounting Concepts]…will guide the Board in developing accounting and reporting standards by providing the Board with a common foundation …Concepts Statements describe concepts that will underlie guidance on future financial accounting practices and in due course will serve as a basis for evaluating existing guidance and practices” (FASB, 2018).

Whether lauded or criticized the FASB Conceptual Framework is treated as legitimate. It is not. This paper challenges the legitimacy of the FASB Conceptual Framework as a “coherent system of interrelated objectives and fundamental concepts.” Far from being a “coherent system,” the FASB Conceptual Framework is neither coherent nor a system. I argue that the FASB’s Conceptual Framework is illogical and based on autocratic declarations, faulty assumptions, fallacious conclusions, contradictory assertions, internal inconsistencies, erroneous identification of resources, ignorance of securities laws, and circularity of reasoning and therefore cannot be used as guidance in developing standards of accounting, or provide structure or direction to financial accounting and reporting. To paraphrase an old fable, the FASB Conceptual Framework has no clothes.


Keywords: FASB Conceptual Framework, factors of production, resources of production, scarce resources, resource allocation, securities markets, financial reporting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis, The FASB Conceptual Framework – A Case of the Emperor’s New Clothes (June 7, 2019). Journal of Accounting, Ethics & Public Policy, 21(1), 77-114 (2020)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3400769 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3400769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
S P Agrawal
On the conceptual framework of accounting
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 6 , p. 165 - 178 Posted: 1987
S Banner
American property: A history of how, why, and what we own Posted: 2011
J Cirace
When are law and economics isomorphic? , volume 39 , p. 183 - 220 Posted: 2009
M Dempsey
The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM): The history of a failed revolutionary idea in finance? Abacus , volume 49 , p. 7 - 23 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,251
RANK
254,521
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies