Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mutual Fund Tax Overhang

Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2019-38

Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2019-13

49 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Ethan Yale

University of Virginia School of Law

Date Written: July 1, 2019

Abstract

The built-in gain in a mutual fund’s portfolio is referred to as “tax overhang.” Tax is imposed on investors who buy shares in mutual funds with tax overhang even though the gain accrued before their investment. The consequence is accelerated tax, increasing the shareholders’ effective tax rate. This article (1) explains why this occurs and why it is a problem, (2) describes the magnitude of the problem, (3) describes and illustrates avoidance strategies funds use to avoid the bad effects of tax overhang, (4) argues that reform is warranted, and (5) describes and evaluates the options for reform.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, mutual funds, mutual fund taxation

Suggested Citation:

Yale, Ethan, Mutual Fund Tax Overhang (July 1, 2019). Virginia Public Law and Legal Theory Research Paper No. 2019-38, Virginia Law and Economics Research Paper No. 2019-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3413063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
American Jobs Creation Act , p. 108 - 357 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Supra Hervey , Note
, volume 1
Crossref
See Steven Z. Hodaszy, Tax-Efficient Structure or Tax Shelter? Curbing ETFs' Use of Section 852(b)(6) for Tax Avoidance Posted: 2017
See I.R.C. § , volume 302 , issue b
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,942
RANK
258,444
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Virginia Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Virginia Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies