Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing Section 1231 Gain in Qualified Opportunity Zones

Tax Management Real Estate Journal, Vol. 35, p. 7, 2019

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 607

6 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2019

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: July 9, 2019

Abstract

This article critiques the net section 1231 gain provision in the latest round of proposed regulations issued under the qualified opportunity fund statute. That net section 1231 gain provision provides that taxpayers can only invest net section 1231 gain for a taxable year in a QOF beginning on December 31 of the taxable year during which the section 1231 gain is realized. The article shows how the net section 1231 gain provision is unfair, of questionable validity, and inconsistent with other nonrecognition provisions. These problems stem largely from Treasury’s definition of eligible gain, which includes only capital gains.

The article suggests that Treasury should retain the net section 1231 gain provision in the final regulations for the sole purpose of protecting taxpayers who have relied upon it in 2019 to make investment decisions. Otherwise the final regulations should allow taxpayers to invest section 1231 gain in qualified opportunity funds within 180 days after the gain is realized, regardless of any section 1231 losses recognized or to be recognized during the taxable year. The final regulations could accomplish this objective by simply defining eligible gain with reference to the section 64 definition of ordinary income. That definition excludes from ordinary income any gain from the sale of capital assets and section 1231 property. Such gains, which do not come within the definition of ordinary income, should be eligible for investment in qualified opportunity funds.


Keywords: QOF, opportunity zone, opportunity fund, section 1231 gain, section 1231 loss

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Investing Section 1231 Gain in Qualified Opportunity Zones (July 9, 2019). Tax Management Real Estate Journal, Vol. 35, p. 7, 2019, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 607, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3417409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,171
RANK
409,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies