Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Whatness of Digital Accounting: Status Quo and Ways to Move Forward

ACRN Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives, 2019, Vol. 8, Special Issue Digital Accounting, pp. I-IX

Posted: 23 Jul 2019

Othmar Manfred Lehner

Hanken School of Economics - Department of Accounting

Susanne Leitner-Hanetseder

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Christoph Eisl

Upper Austria - University of Applied Sciences Upper Austria

Date Written: July 18, 2019

Abstract

Digital Accounting has found its way into the everyday language used by accounting practitioners, with the Big 4 auditing companies pouring massive resources into the digitalisation of accounting processes in order to create an early-mover business advantage. With this special issue, we thus like to invite and motivate the community of scholars interested in digital accounting to collaborate, to take in the various field-specific perspectives and to finally holistically map and delineate the field of digital accounting. For this, we propose an early framework and a research agenda that may unite and guide researchers towards a holistic understanding of the field.

Keywords: accounting information systems, digital accounting, information sciences, fintech, cybercrime, artificial intelligence, delphi-study

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Lehner, Othmar Manfred and Leitner-Hanetseder, Susanne and Eisl, Christoph, The Whatness of Digital Accounting: Status Quo and Ways to Move Forward (July 18, 2019). ACRN Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives, 2019, Vol. 8, Special Issue Digital Accounting, pp. I-IX, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3422330
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,503
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems & Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies