Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partnership-Related Relatedness: Measuring Partners’ Capital Interests and Profits Interests

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 608, July 2019

14 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2019

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: July 19, 2019

Abstract

Section 707(b)(1) provides that two partnerships are related if the same persons own more than 50% of the partnership’s capital interests or profits interests. Even though numerous sections of the Internal Revenue Code rely upon that definition of partnership relatedness, the law does not provide meaningful guidance for measuring capital and profits interests. Measuring such interests in partnerships with distribution-dependent equity structures is particularly challenging because rights to profits can vary from tier-to-tier in distribution waterfalls. Focusing on measuring profits interests in partnerships, this article presents five methods for measuring such interests: (1) the max-out approach, (2) the capital-only liquidation approach, (3) the capital-plus liquidation approach, (4) the current-profits approach, and (5) the projected-profits approach. With no guidance in this area favoring any approach, observers may conclude that any of the approaches could be used to measure profits interests. The article uses an example to test each approach and to demonstrate that the capital-plus liquidation approach, which considers how capital and profits would be distributed in a hypothetical liquidation at the time of measurement, is the soundest of the five approaches and returns reasonable values. The article suggests that the IRS should provide guidance in this area to create certainty for an important section of the Internal Revenue Code.

Keywords: profits interests, related partnership, section 707(b), section 1031, qualified opportunity fund

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Partnership-Related Relatedness: Measuring Partners’ Capital Interests and Profits Interests (July 19, 2019). Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 608, July 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423041
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,061
RANK
292,525
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies