Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Partnership Audit Rules Start to Take Shape

99 Practical Strategies 4 (Oct. 2017)

47 Pages Posted: 26 Jul 2019

Monica Gianni

California State University Northridge

Date Written: October 1, 2017

Abstract

As part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA), Congress repealed the unified partnership audit rules and the audit rules for electing large partnerships (ELPs) and replaced them with a new audit regime (the BBA audit rules). The BBA audit rules generally are effective for audits of partnership returns for tax years beginning after 2017. The BBA audit rules are a dramatic departure from the TEFRA/unified partnership audit rules. Extensive proposed regulations were issued in June 2017 and consist of 277 pages of detailed guidance on many of the BBA audit rules. The regulations are complex and tedious to work through and do not address all the new BBA audit rules. They are, however, well thought out and drafted and contain a certain symmetry that carries through all aspects of the regulations that should be beneficial in reaching final regulations that are workable to implement legislation that was perhaps not so well thought out. This article sets forth the rules for partnership audits based on the authorities issued to date as the BBA audit rules start to take shape.

Keywords: BBA audit rules, TEFRA, partnership audit

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Gianni, Monica, The Partnership Audit Rules Start to Take Shape (October 1, 2017). 99 Practical Strategies 4 (Oct. 2017), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
273 References
Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 (TEFRA), they are often referred to as TEFRA. For a discussion of these rules, see Bittker & Lokken, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates and Gifts ¶
P L false
114-74, section 1101, 11/2/15. Corrections were made to the BBA audit rules by the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act, P. L. No. 114-113, Div. Q, section 411, 12/18/15, effective as if included in the BBA. See August and Cuff
The New Partnership Audit Rules: Guidance Needed , volume 44 Posted: 2017-02
August
The Good, The Bad, and Possibly the Ugly in the New Audit Rules: Congress Rescues the IRS from its Inability to Audit Large Partnerships , volume 18 Posted: 2016-06
Brause
New Partnership Audit Rules: Concepts and Issues
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
273 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies