Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting the Use of Management Accounting Practices in Small and Medium Enterprises: Evidence from Indonesia

Journal Dinamika Akuntansi, 10(2), 158-176 (September 2018)

19 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2019

Diah Agustina Prihastiwi

Universitas Tidar

Mahfud Sholihin

Gadjah Mada University

Date Written: March 1, 2018

Abstract

This study aims to explore the level of adoption of management accounting practices (MAPs) in small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) sector in one of the developing countries, Indonesia. Further, this study also examines factors which may affect the extent of use of MAPs in SMEs. Previous studies find SMEs contribute to the development of economy both in developed and developing countries. Nevertheless, the focus of SMEs studies related to management accounting field is still in the developed countries. Studies on the adoption of MAPs in developing countries are still limited. This study uses logistic regression to analyze the data and to test the hypotheses. The study finds that qualification of internal accounting staffs, participation of owner/manager, and size of the firm significantly affect the use of MAPs in SMEs. The result also shows that traditional MAPs are still dominating the use of MAPs by Indonesian SMEs.

Keywords: contingency theory, Indonesia, management accounting practices, small medium sized enterprises

Suggested Citation:

Prihastiwi, Diah Agustina and Sholihin, Mahfud, Factors Affecting the Use of Management Accounting Practices in Small and Medium Enterprises: Evidence from Indonesia (March 1, 2018). Journal Dinamika Akuntansi, 10(2), 158-176 (September 2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3424632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 , issue 5 , p. 336 - 357 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
The impact of firm characteristics on management accounting practices: A UK-based empirical analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 2 - 27 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Ahmad
The use of management accounting practices in Malaysian SMEs. Unpublished PhD Dissertation Posted: 2012
M Al-Omiri , C Drury
A survey of factors influencing the choice of product costing systems in UK organizations
Management Accounting Research , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 424 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,302
RANK
42,649
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies