Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managers’ Use of Humor on Public Earnings Conference Calls

51 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2019 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Rachel W. Flam

London Business School

Joshua A. Lee

Brigham Young University

Nathan Y. Sharp

Texas A&M University - Department of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: February 18, 2022

Abstract

Despite the prevalence and importance of humor in interpersonal communication, the disclosure literature is silent on the use of humor in the context of corporate communication. Using a sophisticated machine learning algorithm, we identify managers’ successful uses of humor during public earnings conference calls. When managers use humor on an earnings call, stock market returns and analyst forecast revisions following the call are more positive, primarily because of a muted response to negative earnings news. Consistent with managers’ successful use of humor being a favorable signal of future firm performance, we find no evidence of a return reversal over the subsequent quarter, and managers’ use of humor predicts more favorable news at the subsequent quarter’s earnings announcement. Our study provides new evidence on the use of humor in corporate disclosures, and our findings indicate that humor can meaningfully influence the market response to public earnings conference calls.

Keywords: earnings conference calls, humor, disclosure, financial analysts, management

JEL Classification: G02, G20, G24, G29, D22, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Flam, Rachel W. and Lee, Joshua A. and Sharp, Nathan Y., Managers’ Use of Humor on Public Earnings Conference Calls (February 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3425509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3425509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
D L Alden , W D Hoyer , C Lee
Identifying global and culture-specific dimensions of humor in advertising: a multinational analysis
Journal of Marketing , volume 57 , p. 64 - 75 Posted: 1993
D Armstrong
It's always a "Great quarter, guys!" if you're an equity analyst Posted: 2015
B J Avolio , J M Howell , J J Sosik
A funny thing happened on the way to the bottom line: humor as a moderator of leadership style effects
Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , p. 219 - 227 Posted: 1999
R A Baron
Reducing organizational conflict: An incompatible response approach
Journal of Applied Psychology , volume 69 , p. 272 - 279 Posted: 1984
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,743
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,679
RANK
23,063
3 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies