Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Phantom Income and Domestic Support Obligations

67 BUFF. L. REV. 365 (2019)

41 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2019

Timothy M. Todd

Liberty University - School of Law

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The tax code is designed to raise government revenue. Domestic support obligations (DSOs) — namely, child support and spousal support — are designed to ameliorate the financial burdens that arise upon divorce. To determine the amount of domestic support obligations, statutes often refer to commonly used taxation concepts, such as “income.”

Courts determining domestic support obligations have been confronted with the question of how to treat “phantom income” — that is, amounts that are includible as gross income under the federal tax code but that have not resulted in any actual current cash receipt. Individuals obligated to make domestic support payments have argued that phantom income should not be included when calculating or modifying such obligations because the individual’s ability to pay has not materially changed. This Article analyzes the intersection of federal tax law and domestic support obligations concerning phantom income.

This Article considers several solutions — judicial and legislative — to address the phantom income issue in the domestic support context. Notably, this Article evaluates the current judicial decisional framework to examine the potential tax and DSO asymmetries. Finally, this Article advances a legislative proposal for a charging-order type remedy specific to domestic support obligations—one that would resolve the phantom income issue in many situations.


Keywords: tax, tax law, family law, divorce, alimony, child support, phantom income, domestic support

JEL Classification: K00, K19, K34

Suggested Citation:

Todd, Timothy M., Phantom Income and Domestic Support Obligations (2019). 67 BUFF. L. REV. 365 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3428726
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
I R C
But see id. § 74(d)(2) (limiting the exclusion to taxpayers with AGI of $1,000,000 or less)
Robert W See Generally , C Wood &amp; Richard , Morris
The General Welfare Exception to Gross Income Posted: 2005
Robert W Wood
Updating General Welfare Exception Authorities , p. 123 - 1443 Posted: 2009
&amp; Wood , Morris
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,158
RANK
564,240
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies