Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of International Maritime Leasing Profits: Has the Commissioner's Ship Come In?

(2007) 35(1) Australian Business Law Review 18-32

15 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2019

Kerrie Sadiq

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 1, 2007

Abstract

In light of McDermott Industries (Aust) Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation, and Draft Taxation Ruling TR 2006/D8, this article considers the current Australian taxation position of profits arising from the cross-border leasing of vessels in the maritime industry. It focuses on the tax treaties to which Australia is a party, in particular the application of the business profits provisions of those treaties, and the deemed existence of a permanent establishment where substantial equipment, owned by a fiscal non-resident, is used within Australian waters.

Suggested Citation:

Sadiq, Kerrie, The Taxation of International Maritime Leasing Profits: Has the Commissioner's Ship Come In? (January 1, 2007). (2007) 35(1) Australian Business Law Review 18-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3430066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
United Kingdom-Australia treaty
Art , volume 5 , issue 1
United Kingdom-Australia treaty
Art , volume 5 , issue 2
United Kingdom-Australia treaty
Art , volume 5 , issue 4
The taxation of international maritime leasing profits: Has the commissioner's ship come in? , p. 35 - 53 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
649,413
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies