Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trouble Never Comes Alone – Some Issues of Divorce and Taxation

36 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2019

Shahab Razani

CSUN; AICPA; AAA; ACFE

Ivan V. Rubtsov

Independent

Date Written: December 10, 2015

Abstract

Divorce is stressful enough to forget anything else while struggling through the emotions of the ruined life and lifestyle, accusations, and insults arguably results in one of the most intense stresses of modern life. This stress brings decreased income, reduction in property, and a lack of attention to matters other than the divorce itself, such as taxes. This article reviews some controversial and unexpected combinations and provides some tools for tax planning related to divorce issues. While presuming some understanding of tax law, this article stresses the tax law applications in different situations that family court judges create, usually without having considered tax ramifications. The latest United States Supreme Court decision added another layer of confusion and complications to the field of family law by allowing legally married same-sex persons (SSMPs) to be treated as married for federal income tax purposes. This article is treating the SSMP the same as any other married couple.

Keywords: taxation issues divorce

Suggested Citation:

Razani, Shahab and Rubtsov, Ivan V., Trouble Never Comes Alone – Some Issues of Divorce and Taxation (December 10, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3435359 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3435359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
the Matter of the Appeal of: Lyrae Zorich (97A-1469) , volume 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
the Matter of the Appeal of: Ali Vazirabadi (98A-0699) , volume 577 , p. 3 - 4 Posted: 1996
Crossref
the Matter of the Appeal of: Ali Vazirabadi (98A-0699) , volume 577 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Ca
Revenue and Taxation Code §17054 , volume 5
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,142
RANK
897,570
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies