Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opportunities and Traps in the Tax Treatment of Transaction Costs and Intangible Asset Costs

Tax Management Real Estate Journal, V. 31, N. 2, p. 31, 2015

13 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2019

Andy A. Torosyan

Holthouse, Carlin & Van Trigt LLP

Shahab Razani

CSUN; AICPA; AAA; ACFE

Date Written: February 4, 2015

Abstract

Companies buying or selling businesses incur billions of dollars in transaction costs every year. Unlike typical business expenses, there are rules that prevent taxpayers from currently deducting transaction costs and, in some cases, ever deducting these costs. To clarify this area, in 2003 Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service issued final regulations under §263.3 Reg. §1.263(a)-4 and Reg. §1.263(a)-54 provide comprehensive rules about the treatment of costs related to intangible assets, including transaction costs incurred in mergers and acquisitions and certain real estate transactions. The IRS has also issued guidance for success-based fees (or contingent transaction costs) and for milestone payments. However, it appears the safe harbor provisions for success-based fees exclude sellers’ costs in asset sales. The phrase ‘‘transaction costs’’ includes direct and indirect costs. Specifically, costs incurred in facilitating the acquisition or disposition of a trade or business, a change in capital structure, formation of legal entities, borrowings, and other similar transactions. Costs incurred in other transactions, such as construction of real estate and the purchase of machinery also are subject to capitalization. The focus of this article is transactions described in Reg. §1.263(a)-4 and Reg. §1.263(a)-5 with a focus on opportunities and pitfalls.

Note: Reproduced with permission from Tax Management Real Estate Journal, V. 31, N. 2, p. 31, 02/04/2015. Copyright 2015 by The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. (800-372-1033) http://www.bna.com.

Keywords: acquisition transaction costs

Suggested Citation:

Torosyan, Andy A. and Razani, Shahab, Opportunities and Traps in the Tax Treatment of Transaction Costs and Intangible Asset Costs (February 4, 2015). Tax Management Real Estate Journal, V. 31, N. 2, p. 31, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3435354 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3435354
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
3 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies