Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transfer of a Going Concern

LexisNexis Practical Guidance: Singapore Tax, 2018

Posted: 16 Aug 2019

Vincent Ooi

Singapore Management University - Yong Pung How School of Law; Singapore Tax Academy Research Initiative

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The sale of a business is in substance the sale of a number of assets bundled together. Generally, GST would be charged on the transfer of each asset according to the rules applicable to that asset, i.e. standard-rate, zero-rate or exempt.

However, where a business is transferred as a going concern (a “TOGC”), the transaction may be treated as an excluded transaction under the Goods and Services Tax (Excluded Transactions) Order. If so, the trans-action would be treated as neither a supply of goods nor a supply of services and therefore outside the scope of GST. No GST is then chargeable on the sale of the business.

Keywords: Tax Law

Suggested Citation:

Ooi, Vincent, Transfer of a Going Concern (October 1, 2018). LexisNexis Practical Guidance: Singapore Tax, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3436539
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies