Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lower-Income Tax Planning

2020 University of Illinois Law Review 195

UC Hastings Research Paper No. 338

38 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2019 Last revised: 30 Apr 2021

Manoj Viswanathan

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: March 16, 2019

Abstract

Tax planning is generally criticized by scholars as inefficient; that is, imposing welfare-reducing costs by incentivizing transactions with few non-tax economic benefits. This Article argues that this view is unacceptably narrow, and makes the original claim that tax planning by lower-income taxpayers is often welfare-enhancing and should, as a normative matter, be encouraged. As such, various parties, including the IRS, law school clinics, legal academics, and tax practitioners should actively strategize to reduce the transaction costs currently hindering lower-income tax planning. This Article then applies that mandate to a specific cohort of lower-income taxpayers — drivers working in the sharing economy — and proposes a strategy through which these taxpayers can take advantage of both existing tax laws and the §199A qualified business income deduction of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. By judiciously operating their rideshare activities through S-corporations, rather than as sole proprietors, rideshare drivers can obtain significant tax savings.

Keywords: tax, TCJA, low-income, lower-income, tax planning

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Viswanathan, Manoj, Lower-Income Tax Planning (March 16, 2019). 2020 University of Illinois Law Review 195, UC Hastings Research Paper No. 338, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438398
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
See City , &amp; Cty , Of San Francisco V. Homeaway , Com , Inc
Cal. Rptr. 3d , volume 901 Posted: 2018
Crossref
See Driver Requirements
Posted: 2019
Crossref
For jurisdictions where minimum wage is higher than the federal rate, exceptions typically apply for closely held small businesses Posted: 2019
Uber and Lyft claim that they are technology companies, rather than transportation companies. Nicholas L. DeBruyne, Uber Drivers: A Disputed Employment Relationship in Light of the Sharing Economy, 92 CHI
L. REV , volume 289 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
317,158
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies