Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choice of Entity Under the TCJA: Tax and Financial Aid Implications

Tax Notes, Vol. 164, No. 7, 1047-1064, 2019

18 Pages Posted: 24 Aug 2019 Last revised: 11 Sep 2019

Ross Riskin

American Institute of Certified College Financial Consultants; Investments & Wealth Institute

Date Written: August 12, 2019

Abstract

This article focuses on the actual individual and business income tax liabilities that would be imposed on business owners in three case simulations. This research evaluates the effect of business entity choice under the TCJA when considering a financial goal that is relevant for many taxpayers and small business owners: funding college education. The simulations show the income and payroll tax consequences associated with business entity choice along with the effect on college financial aid eligibility. We analyze how the tax code and financial aid regulations interact and identify planning opportunities and variables that can help small business owners achieve their college funding and tax planning goals in the most financially efficient manner.

Keywords: Business Entity Choice, Tax Planning, QBI Deduction, TCJA, Financial Aid, FAFSA

JEL Classification: H21, H25, I22

Suggested Citation:

Riskin, Ross, Choice of Entity Under the TCJA: Tax and Financial Aid Implications (August 12, 2019). Tax Notes, Vol. 164, No. 7, 1047-1064, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3441148
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
492
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,091
RANK
132,271
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies