Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Small Business CGT Concessions: Evidence from the Perspective of the Tax Practitioner

(2014) 24(1) Revenue Law Journal, Article 1

23 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2019

Kerrie Sadiq

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Stephen Marsden

Queensland Univesity of Technology

Date Written: July 1, 2014

Abstract

On 21 September 1999 Division 152 was inserted into the Income Tax Assessment Act (1997) (ITAA 1997). Division 152 contains the small business CGT concessions, which enables eligible small business taxpayers to reduce the amount of tax payable on capital gains arising from certain CGT events that occur after 11:45 am on 21 September 1999. One of the principal objectives of the legislation is to provide a concessionary regime for small business owners who do not have the same ability to access the concessionary superannuation regime generally available to employees.

When announcing the introduction of the concessions the then Federal Treasurer, Mr Peter Costello, specifically stated that the objective of Division 152 was to provide ‘small business people with access to funds for retirement or expansion’. The purpose of this article is to: one, assess the extent to which small business taxpayers understand the CGT small business concessions, particularly when considering the sale of their business; two, determine which of the four small business CGT concessions are most commonly adopted and/or recommended by tax practitioners to clients; and three, to determine whether the superannuation changes in relation to the capping of the concessional superannuation thresholds have had an impact on the use of the small business retirement concession.

Suggested Citation:

Sadiq, Kerrie and Marsden, Stephen, The Small Business CGT Concessions: Evidence from the Perspective of the Tax Practitioner (July 1, 2014). (2014) 24(1) Revenue Law Journal, Article 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3442344
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Paul Kenny
The 1999 review of business taxation: should we fast track small business tax reform?
Revenue Law Journal , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 138 - 167 Posted: 2008
Cynthia Coleman , Chris Evans
Tax Compliance Issues for Small Business in Australia
Taxing Small Business: Developing Good Tax Policies for SMEs , p. 147 - 181 Posted: 2003
Chris Evans
Studying the Studies: An overview of recent research into taxation operating costs' eJournal of
Tax Research , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 64 - 92 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
770
RANK
805,836
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies