Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Relief Awareness: Its Financial Consequences to Non-Filers in Ghana

12 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2019

Solomon Arhin

Christ Apostolic University College

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

Every government urges its citizenry to pay tax, but its payment places some sort of burden on the taxpayer. In order to lessen the burden of the taxpayer, some reliefs are granted by the government. The study sought to ascertain how tax reliefs influence the payment of tax. The needed data was obtained through the use of questionnaires and interviews. A total of 150 questionnaires were administered to the staff workers in Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly, and some of the student workers in Christ Apostolic University College. Out of this, one hundred and forty-two responded indicating response rate of 95%. Hypotheses were set to test each of the research objectives. All the hypotheses were supported even though the main challenge faced by tax filers is the long delay in the payment of returns. Based on the findings, it is recommended that computerized tax filing system should be implemented so that every Ghanaian can file the returns online to reduce the delays caused by paper filing.

Keywords: Non tax filers, Kumasi metropolitan, tax reliefs, financial consequences

Suggested Citation:

Arhin, Solomon, Tax Relief Awareness: Its Financial Consequences to Non-Filers in Ghana (September 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3455541 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3455541
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
C Adams
Those Dirty Rotten Taxes the Tax Revolts That Built America
Journal des Économistes et des Études Humaines , volume 8 , issue 4 , p. 537 - 554 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Arhin
Microfinance and poverty issues: the theory and practice on institutional sustainability
International Journal of Research , volume 5 , p. 274 - 287 Posted: 2018
S K Grove
The practice of nursing research: conduct, critique & utilization Posted: 2001
S P Harter , D F Newyork Polit , B P Hungler
Research methods in librarianship: Techniques and interpretation
Nursing Research: Principles and Methods Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
250,867
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies