Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
After the Flood: Transparent and Hybrid Entities in Australian Treaties after the MLI

eJournal of Tax Research Vol 17 No 1, 2019

Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 19/61

35 Pages Posted: 3 Oct 2019

Mark Brabazon

The University of Sydney Law School; University of Melbourne - Law School

Date Written: October 2, 2019

Abstract

This article analyses the treatment of fiscally transparent entities (partnerships, trusts, check-the-box entities, etc) and their income under Australian tax treaties after the commencement of the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (Multilateral Instrument, or MLI). It identifies the operation of article 3 of the MLI, its relationship with the OECD Model tax treaty and unresolved issues under the transparent entity clause of those instruments, and its impact on each of Australia’s tax treaties. It also analyses each treaty that already deals with transparent entities including its current operation, changes under the MLI, and particular provisions that address some otherwise unresolved issues.

Keywords: international taxation, tax treaties, fiscally transparent entities, hybrid entities, OECD/G20 base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project, Multilateral Instrument (MLI), OECD Partnership Report, trusts, partnerships

JEL Classification: K10, K30, K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brabazon, Mark, After the Flood: Transparent and Hybrid Entities in Australian Treaties after the MLI (October 2, 2019). eJournal of Tax Research Vol 17 No 1, 2019, Sydney Law School Research Paper No. 19/61, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3463051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Bulletin for International Taxation 663, particularly the author's summation of competing theories and discussion of HFD Posted: 2016-04
W Daniel , Blum
The Relationship between the OECD Multilateral Instrument and Covered Tax Agreements: Multilateralism and the Interpretation of the MLI' (2018) 72(3) Bulletin for International Taxation 131, 139. It seems unlikely that the particular sequence of events noted above will impede reference to the OECD Model
Commentary on Art Posted: 2017
Ludmilla Maurer
A Brave New Post-BEPS World: New Double Tax Treaty Between Germany and Australia Implements BEPS Measures , volume 45 Posted: 2017
Michelle Markham
A Tax Treaty for the Era of the OECD/G20 BEPS Initiative?' (2017) 71(8) Bulletin for International Taxation 410. 122 'Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the application of any provision of the laws of a Contracting State which is designed to prevent the evasion or avoidance of taxes
The New Australia-Germany Income and Capital Tax Treaty Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,176
RANK
467,335
1 Citations
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies