Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The TCJA and the Treaties

95 Tax Notes International 1057 (September 2019)

Rutgers Law School Research Paper

14 Pages Posted: 11 Oct 2019

H. David Rosenbloom

Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered

Fadi Shaheen

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - School of Law, Newark

Date Written: September 9, 2019

Abstract

This article addresses the interaction of U.S. income tax treaties and certain changes made by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to the international provisions of the corporate income tax. The article makes four main points. First, it explains why the participation exemption, the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) regime, and the transition tax on deemed repatriations of deferred foreign earnings are compatible with provisions of U.S. treaties allowing for relief from international double taxation. Second, it explains why the disallowance of deductions for foreign related-party interest or royalty payments in hybrid transactions or with hybrid entities is compatible with treaty nondiscrimination provisions. Third, the article explains why the foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) regime, the (arguable) disallowance of a statutory foreign tax credit (FTC) with respect to hybrid dividends not benefiting from the participation exemption, and the repeal of IRC section 902 are inconsistent, but not in conflict, with U.S. treaty provisions on nondiscrimination and relief from double taxation, and therefore raise no treaty override questions. Finally, the article suggests that reconciling the inconsistencies means that: (1) U.S. permanent establishments of foreign corporations resident in treaty partner jurisdictions may claim a treaty-based FDII deduction; (2) a U.S. corporation may claim a treaty indirect FTC for both the U.S.-source portion of a dividend for which an FTC election is made and the foreign-source portion of a dividend not benefiting from the participation exemption by reason of failing to meet the one-year holding period requirement, provided the dividend is received from a foreign subsidiary that is resident in a treaty partner jurisdiction and at least 10 percent of the voting stock of that subsidiary is owned by the U.S. corporation; and (3) if there is no statutory FTC for a hybrid dividend and tiered hybrid dividend inclusion, a U.S. corporation may claim a treaty direct FTC for withholding tax paid to a treaty partner jurisdiction on a hybrid dividend received from a controlled foreign corporation or a treaty indirect FTC for income tax paid to a treaty partner jurisdiction by the receiving CFC in the transaction triggering the tiered hybrid dividend inclusion, provided at least 10 percent of the voting stock of the CFC is owned by the U.S. corporation.

Keywords: international tax, participation exemption, GILTI, transition tax, hybrid transactions, hybrid entities, FDII, income tax treaties, treaty override, treaty reconciliation, nondiscrimination, foreign tax credit

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Rosenbloom, H. David and Shaheen, Fadi, The TCJA and the Treaties (September 9, 2019). 95 Tax Notes International 1057 (September 2019) , Rutgers Law School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3465317
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
RANK
234,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Rutgers Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies