Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Gain Must Lie Where It Falls: Matching Tax with Economics in Subchapter K

11 Colum. J. Tax L. 1 (2019)

40 Pages Posted: 1 Nov 2019 Last revised: 10 Mar 2020

Zhiyuan Zuo

Norton Rose Fulbright US LLP

Date Written: March 9, 2020

Abstract

Society suffers efficiency costs when tax and economics are mismatched. This principle is illustrated by the tax neutrality doctrines that are the cornerstone of the U.S. international tax system and by the BEPS’s efforts to combat arbitrary income shifting. While society has an interest in maximizing pre-tax income from all economic activities, self-interested taxpayers seek only to maximize their after-tax income. A sound, non-arbitrary tax policy must thus incentivize taxpayers to maximize both their pre-tax and after-tax income. This Note provides a novel efficiency analysis of the rules under Subchapter K and reveals the efficiency costs that arise when arbitrary tax liabilities sever the positive connection between pre-tax and after-tax income. It applies the insight gained from the efficiency analysis to the Treasury’s various flawed efforts under Subchapter K to match tax with economics, including the Substantial Economic Effect (SEE) safe harbor and doctrines under section 704(c). The Article then explores alternatives to the Treasury’s “one-size-fits-all” solution, focusing on a detailed analysis of the economic effect equivalence (EEE) test and so-called target allocations. After revealing the tension between target allocations and some of the fundamental principles of section 704 regulations, the Article presents a solution to the long-debated capital shift problem inherent in target allocations.

Note: The author is currently a Law Clerk at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP. The views expressed in this article reflect those of the author and not necessarily those of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP or any of its clients.

Keywords: Partnership Tax

Suggested Citation:

Zuo, Zhiyuan, A Gain Must Lie Where It Falls: Matching Tax with Economics in Subchapter K (March 9, 2020). 11 Colum. J. Tax L. 1 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3469932 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3469932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Book-Equal-to-Value Assumption: Revisited
Admittedly, the partnership agreement may fail the substantiality prong of the SEE safe harbor if the special allocations of depreciation and deductions from guaranteed payments are viewed as "transitory". However, if there is a "strong likelihood" that liquidation will not occur within five years, the allocations will not be deemed "transitory
See supra note17 , volume 1 , p. 704 - 705
Treas. Reg. § , volume 1 , issue b , p. 704 - 705
Crossref
See Treas. Reg. §1.704-1(b)(2)(iii)(C)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,459
RANK
399,022
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies