Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Responsibility Accounting: The New Way of Cost Control and Performance Measurement

THE ACCOUNTING WORLD, August 2007, IUP Publications

3 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2019 Last revised: 28 Feb 2023

Dr. Ashok Kumar Panigrahi

SVKM's Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS)

Date Written: August 31, 2007

Abstract

One of the most important and difficult tasks that every organization has to perform is the effective measurement of the performance of each employee. Responsibility Accounting is a technique which helps in measuring as well as improving the performance of employees, which ultimately helps the organization in controlling and reducing the costs.

The systems of costing like standard costing and budgetary control are useful to manage and control the costs. In those systems, the emphasis is on the devices of control and not on those who use such devices. The concept of Responsibility Accounting is closely related to the systems of standard costing and budgetary control. According to Schalke RW and Johnson HG, "the management accounting system that ties budgeting and performance reporting to a decentralized organization is called responsibility accounting." Responsibility Accounting is a system of control where responsibility is assigned for the control of costs. Individuals are made responsible for the control of costs. Proper authority is given to such people so that they are able to keep up their performance. In case the performance is not at par with the predetermined standards, the persons to whom this duty is assigned will be held responsible. In responsibility accounting, the emphasis is on personnel employees rather than systems. For example, if Mr. A, the manager of a department, prepares the cost budget of his department, he will be made responsible for keeping the budgets under control. 'A' will be supplied with full information on costs incurred by his department. If the costs so incurred exceed the budgeted costs, 'A' will probe into the reasons behind such expenditure and take necessary corrective measures. He will be personally responsible for the performance of his department.

Keywords: Responsibility Accounting, The New Way of Cost Control and Performance Measurement, difficult tasks, organization, effective measurement, performance of each employee, technique, controlling and reducing costs, control of costs, management information, reporting system, fundamental aspects, Costs a

Suggested Citation:

Panigrahi, Ashok, Responsibility Accounting: The New Way of Cost Control and Performance Measurement (August 31, 2007). THE ACCOUNTING WORLD, August 2007, IUP Publications, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
38
ABSTRACT VIEWS
831
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies