Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Possible Impact of Accounting Income Method (AIM) on Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in New Zealand

18 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2019

Frank Tsuzuki

CWK Accountants

John Sun

AA Taxation and Accounting Services

Kevin Chiv

CWK Accountants

Date Written: October 19, 2019

Abstract

Accounting income method (AIM) has been introduced as a provisional income tax payment method in April 2018 in New Zealand. One of the concerns from the taxpayer side is that the provisional tax payment amount and timing is not necessarily consistent with that of actual income and profit of taxpayers. AIM utilises advanced technologies of accounting software, MYOB, Reckon APS or Xero, to address issues including this. The major purpose of this research was to evaluate possible impacts of AIM on New Zealand small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) based on available information related to AIM. In addition to the publicly available information on the provisional income tax payment methods and AIM, an official information request to Inland Revenue (IR) and hearing/inquiry surveys to IR officer was conducted as well as internal communications in the authors’ affiliation accounting firms. Estimations of hypothetical cases showed there would be difference in income tax payment amounts, 0.16–0.3% of annual revenue, between the Standard method and AIM when the time value of money is considered. AIM would have significant impacts on New Zealand SMEs under such conditions that accounting software would be more proliferated, or conventional accounting software would incorporate data available from existing merchandise, EFTPOS, bank accounts and cashing systems.

Keywords: Accounting Income Method (AIM); National Tax Debt; Provisional Income Tax; Timing of revenue/profit and tax payment

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Tsuzuki, Frank and Sun, John and Chiv, Kevin, Possible Impact of Accounting Income Method (AIM) on Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in New Zealand (October 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
T Dalsgaard
The Tax System in New Zealand: An Appraisal and Options for Change
OECD Economics Department Working Papers Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Sawyer
Complexity of Tax Simplification: A New Zealand Perspective
The Complexity of Tax Simplification
New Zealand Government
Stats NZ Tatauranga Aotearoa: Government finance Posted: 2018
F Mcalister , Bandyopadhyay , Barro , N Couchman , G Gemmell , Liao
Average Marginal Income Tax Rates for New Zealand Posted: 1907
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,469
RANK
325,828
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies