Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Wrapped Nonrecognition: Code Sec. 1031 Exchanges Within Qualified Opportunity Funds

Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 22, p. 37, Sept.-Oct. 2019

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 619

8 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2019

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: November 1, 2019

Abstract

This article is about section 1031 exchanges wrapped in qualified opportunity funds (QOFs). QOFs are new, so they are in the process of buying property, but eventually some QOFs will think about selling their property. To qualify for the full benefit of the QOF regime, a QOF must hold property for at least 10 years. Prior to the end of that 10-year period, some QOF investors may get antsy and want to sell the QOF’s property. If they sell the property for gain, they will lose some or all of the QOF benefits. This article considers whether a QOF can sell property and use the proceeds to acquire like-kind replacement property and defer gain on that transaction under section 1031. If so, a QOF could sell its original property, defer gain on that sale, and remain eligible for the QOF exclusion. The article illustrates that although in concept wrapped nonrecognition is possible, it is not without its challenges. A major hurdle for QOFs will be acquiring replacement property that satisfies the QOF regime’s new-property requirement and section 1031’s like-kind property requirement. The QOF regime favors property constructed by the QOF, while exchanger-constructed property does not satisfy the like-kind property requirement under section 1031. Thus, wrapped nonrecognition requires the QOF to acquire newly-constructed property or vacant property or to do an improvements exchange. The article discusses how a QOF will have to thread a needle to complete an improvements exchange that satisfies both the section 1031 and QOF rules.

Keywords: section 1031, section 1400Z-2, qualified opportunity zones, qualified opportunity funds, QOF, QOZB, like-kind exchange, tax-free exchange

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Wrapped Nonrecognition: Code Sec. 1031 Exchanges Within Qualified Opportunity Funds (November 1, 2019). Journal of Passthrough Entities, Vol. 22, p. 37, Sept.-Oct. 2019, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 619, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3479178
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Partnership-Related Relatedness
Measuring Partners' Capital Interests and Profits Interests
J. Passthrough entities Posted: 2019-06
See Code Sec , volume 179 , issue d
Crossref
See Code Sec , volume 7701 , issue 44
Crossref
See Code Sec. 1031(d)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
RANK
359,301
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies