Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Controversy Corner: Can Taxpayers Rely on Informal Guidance in Attempting to Comply with the TCJA?

CCH Journal of Passthrough Entities, 2019

4 Pages Posted: 14 Nov 2019

Megan L. Brackney

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: September 1, 2019

Abstract

As Treasury and the IRS implement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) of 2017, it is a good time to consider when taxpayers can rely on informal IRS guidance, such as publications, forms, instructions, and frequently asked questions (“FAQs”) on the IRS’s website. The TCJA is one of the most significant overhauls of the Code in decades, and the interpretation and implementation of many of its provisions are unclear. The IRS has published numerous resources to assist taxpayers with compliance with the new and amended Code provisions, and many taxpayers and practitioners will rely on these unofficial sources while they wait for official guidance, such as Treasury Regulations and Revenue Procedures. It seems intuitive that if you follow the instructions provided by the IRS, you will get the correct tax result, but this is not always the case. It also seems intuitive that if you follow the instructions by the IRS and still get it wrong, you should not be subject to penalties. Taxpayers may be surprised to learn that these results are far from guaranteed, but, as stated by several courts, taxpayers rely on the IRS “at their peril.”

Suggested Citation:

Brackney, Megan L., Tax Controversy Corner: Can Taxpayers Rely on Informal Guidance in Attempting to Comply with the TCJA? (September 1, 2019). CCH Journal of Passthrough Entities, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies