Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Technical Service Fee Income: Selected Aspects of the Policy & Tax Treaty Practice of South Africa Relevant for Brazilian Taxpayers

D.V. de Biasi Cordeiro, E.S. Gomes, F. C. Pepe, G. Teixeira Godoy, Eds., Estudos de Tributação Internacional, Vol. 3, (Editora Lumen Juris, Rio de Janeiro, 2019)

31 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2020

Johann Hattingh

University of Cape Town

Jane Mann

University of Cape Town (UCT), Faculty of Law, Students

Date Written: December 12, 2019

Abstract

Analysis of the practice, tax policy and laws of South Africa in regard to the taxation of technical service fees in the bilateral context of the Brazil/South Africa income tax treaty.

Keywords: Technical service fees, double taxation, income tax treaties

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hattingh, Johann and Mann, Jane, Taxation of Technical Service Fee Income: Selected Aspects of the Policy & Tax Treaty Practice of South Africa Relevant for Brazilian Taxpayers (December 12, 2019). D.V. de Biasi Cordeiro, E.S. Gomes, F. C. Pepe, G. Teixeira Godoy, Eds., Estudos de Tributação Internacional, Vol. 3, (Editora Lumen Juris, Rio de Janeiro, 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3502945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
950
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies