Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Litigation: Federal Tax Concerns of Personal Injury Plaintiffs and Their Lawyers

22 Florida Tax Review 120 (2018)

60 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2020

Gregg D. Polsky

University of Georgia School of Law

Date Written: December 13, 2018

Abstract

This Article addresses the federal tax concerns of personal injury plaintiffs and the lawyers who represent them, typically on a contingency-fee basis. It explains when plaintiffs' recoveries are taxable for income and employment tax purposes and whether and how those recoveries are required to be reported by defendants to the IRS. It also discusses whether attorney's fees and costs are deductible by plaintiffs.

In addition to these tax planning and compliance issues, the Article also considers when tax evidence might be admissible. Plaintiffs and defendants often try to introduce tax evidence in an effort to increase or decrease, respectively, the amount of damages awarded. These attempts have been met with varying degrees of success, depending on the jurisdiction and context.

The Article then addresses the personal tax issues of trial lawyers themselves. Structured attorney fee arrangements, whereby these lawyers attempt to defer tax on contingent fees, are discussed. The tax deductibility of litigation costs advanced by contingent fee lawyers to their clients is considered. Finally, the Article concludes with a discussion of how provisions of the 2017 Tax Act might affect trial lawyers.

Keywords: Federal income tax, personal injury damages, personal injury settlements, trial lawyers, structured settlements, contingent attorney fees

Suggested Citation:

Polsky, Gregg D., Taxing Litigation: Federal Tax Concerns of Personal Injury Plaintiffs and Their Lawyers (December 13, 2018). 22 Florida Tax Review 120 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3503512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Childs
Individual taxpayers typically report their income using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, under which an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay is not taxable
See Gordon , T Butler , Economic Benefit
Formulating a Workable Theory of Income Recognition, 27 seToN haLL L
Rev , volume 70 , p. 118 - 137 Posted: 1996
Gregg D. Polsky , Brant J. Hellwig
Examining the Tax Advantage of Founders' Stock
Iowa Law Review, Forthcoming, UNC Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1997179 Pages: 78 Posted: 2 Feb 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
D Gregg , J Polsky &amp; Brant , Hellwig
Close the Yield Exemption Loophole Created by Childs
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
RANK
370,049
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Georgia School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Litigation & Procedure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies