Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Introduction to the Standard Data Analytics Process for Accounting Students

34 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Theophanis C. Stratopoulos

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Dan Rogozynski

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 2, 2020

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to contribute to the effort to develop material for enabling the next generation of tech-savvy accountants with business analytic capabilities, and increase their exposure and familiarity with tools such as R. More specifically, we leverage the award-winning tax case of Borthick and Smeal (2017) to illustrate the teaching of the Cross Industry Standard Process for Data Mining (CRISP-DM) with R. Teaching the implementation of the data analytics process highlights the role and importance of each one of the stages (i.e., business understanding, data understanding, data preparation, modeling, evaluation, and communication). Implementing CRISP-DM in conjunction with R helps students gain a better understanding of data limitations (e.g., missing values, incomplete data, errors in data) and their implications in the context of the case, while providing a readily available record of all steps taken in a data analytics process (i.e., process documentation).

Keywords: Data Analytics, CRISP-DM, R, tax

Suggested Citation:

Stratopoulos, Theophanis C. and Rogozynski, Dan, An Introduction to the Standard Data Analytics Process for Accounting Students (January 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512960 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3512960
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
A F Borthick , L N Smeal
Distinguishing Independent Contractors From Employees: Analyzing Company Practices and Compensation Data to Assess Compliance with IRS Factors
American Accounting Association Annual Meeting Posted: 2017
M S Brown , Forbes , P Chapman , J Clinton , R Kerber , T Khabaza , T Reinartz , C Shearer , R Wirth
What IT Needs To Know About The Data Mining Process
CRISP-DM 1.0 Step-by-step data mining guide. CRISP-DM consortium Posted: 2000
Employment status under section 530(d) of the Revenue Act of 1978: Internal Revenue Service. Rev. Rul. 87-41
C. B Posted: 1987-01-296
G Richins , A Stapleton , T C Stratopoulos , C Wong
Big Data Analytics: Opportunity or Threat for the Accounting Profession
Journal of Information Systems , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 63 - 79 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Duane B. Kennedy , Theophanis C. Stratopoulos
How to Implement a Data Analytics Enabled Accounting Curriculum
21 Pages · Posted: 27 Jul 2022 · Last revised: 15 Jul 2024 · Downloads: 486
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Duane B. Kennedy , Theophanis C. Stratopoulos
How to Implement a Data Analytics and Emerging Technologies-Enabled Accounting Curriculum
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 45 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,487
RANK
284,192
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies