Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Private Foundation Excise Tax on Self-Dealing: Contours, Comparisons, and Character

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Forthcoming

Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-01

41 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2020 Last revised: 2 Mar 2020

Ellen P. Aprill

Loyola Law School Los Angeles; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: January 13, 2020

Abstract

This paper considers section 4941, the private foundation excise tax on self-dealing, on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary. Part I gives background on section 4941. Part II compares the rules of section 4941 to the parallel ones applicable to public charities, including the special rules for supporting organizations and donor advised funds. The fiftieth anniversary of the private foundation excises taxes is also an appropriate time to confront two foundational questions, and Part III does so. It first asks whether we can view the private foundation taxes in general and section 4941 in particular as constitutional exercises of Congress’s taxing power under the tests announced in National Federation of Independent Businesses v. Sibelius. Second, it considers whether we should characterize the section 4941 excise tax as a Pigouvian tax – a hot category among economists but less familiar to lawyers. It answers “maybe not” to the first and “yes but” to the second.

Inconsistent Congressional treatment of self-dealing by section 501(c)(3) organizations and the low level of enforcement lead me to question the effectiveness of our current self-dealing rules. Thus, this examination concludes by suggesting a number of possible changes to the excise taxes applicable to tax-exempt organizations. The conclusion not only considers in detail a relatively small but potentially significant change – expanding abatement rules for first-tier excise taxes to section 4941, but also endorses a large one – the suggestion that approaches outside of the Internal Revenue Service be considered for regulating the charitable sector.


Suggested Citation:

Aprill, Ellen P., The Private Foundation Excise Tax on Self-Dealing: Contours, Comparisons, and Character (January 13, 2020). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Forthcoming, Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3518806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Donald B. Marron , Eric J. Toder , Lydia Austin
Taxing Carbon: What, Why, and How
Pages: 27 Posted: 1 Jul 2015
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
See Katherine Pratt
A Constructive Critique of Public Health Arguments for Antiobesity Soda Taxes and Food Taxes Posted: 2012
Crossref
See Liam , C Malloy
Want Less Inequality? Tax It, THE AMERICAN PROSPECT Posted: 2012-11-14
B Benjamin , Charles G Lockwood , E Glen Nathanson , Weyl
Taxation and the Allocation of Talent
J. OF POL. EC , volume 125 , issue 5 , p. 1635 - 1682 Posted: 2017-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,516
RANK
206,880
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Loyola Law School Los Angeles Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies