Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mapping Erp ‘Chart of Accounts’ to Building Information Modeling Software Using Omniclass Coding Structures and Activity Based Costing/Management – A Contractor’s Perspective

28 Pages Posted: 7 Feb 2020

Paul D Giammalvo, Ph.D.

Independent

Date Written: April 3, 2018

Abstract

This paper is a CASE STUDY showing how the author and his team set up a Project Management Office (PMO) for a major Middle East contractor that used the Omniclass multi-dimensional, standardized WBS/CBS to enable capturing progress, cost and productivity information from the field, importing it into the ERP accounting system and was able to produce "real-time" (~12 hours turn around time) information so that field, home office and senior management can make appropriate decisions.

Omniclass coding was chosen as the basis for future implementation of Building Information Modeling (BIM) by the Contractor.

Keywords: Project Management Office, PMO. Project Controls. Activity Based Costing, Activity Based Manageemnt, Building Information Modeling, BIM.

Suggested Citation:

Giammalvo, Paul D, Mapping Erp ‘Chart of Accounts’ to Building Information Modeling Software Using Omniclass Coding Structures and Activity Based Costing/Management – A Contractor’s Perspective (April 3, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3519739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Paul D Giammalvo , Cdt , Cce , Mscpm , Mrics
Jakarta
Paul D Dr , Giammalvo
MScPM, MRICS, is Senior Technical Advisor (Project Management) to PT Mitratata Citragraha. (PTMC)
CDT, CCE (#1240)
For 25+ years, he has been providing Project Management training and consulting throughout South and Eastern Asia, the Middle East and Europe. He is also active in the Global Project Management Community, serving as an Advocate for and on behalf of the global practitioner. He does so by playing an active professional role in the Association for the Advancement of
Cost Engineering International
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
915
RANK
381,120
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Management Practice eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies