Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is Reg. 650/2012 Really Irrelevant for National Inheritance Taxes? The Case of Italy

Insights and Proposals Related to the Application of the European Succession Regulation 650/2012 (Sarah Landini ed), Biblioteca della Fondazione Italiana del Notariato, 1/2019, 353

Posted: 6 Feb 2020

Stefano Dorigo

Dipartimento di Scienze Giuridiche

Date Written: September 9, 2019

Abstract

The Regulation 650/2012 does not apply to tax matters. It therefore follows that the regulation of taxes related to the opening of a cross-border succession will remain the responsibility of national legislators. However, in the opinion of the writer, that irrelevance must be understood only as a direct irrelevance. On the contrary, there may be many indirect influences of the Regulation with regard to the inheritance tax. In other words, the discipline introduced at European level could be referred to in order to resolve cases in which the national law on inheritance tax refers, without providing its own ad hoc definition, to civil law concepts.

Keywords: regulation 650/12, inheritance tax, cross-border succession; harmonization, habitual residence

Suggested Citation:

Dorigo, Stefano, Is Reg. 650/2012 Really Irrelevant for National Inheritance Taxes? The Case of Italy (September 9, 2019). Insights and Proposals Related to the Application of the European Succession Regulation 650/2012 (Sarah Landini ed), Biblioteca della Fondazione Italiana del Notariato, 1/2019, 353, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3519397
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
456
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies