Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Changes in Business Processes and Management Accounting Techniques and strategies

6 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2020

Chenoy Ceil

Independent

Date Written: January 22, 2019

Abstract

The role of a management accountant in today’s business world is more of an information provider who almost acts as a strategic advisor. This paper analyses this statement in the context of major types of strategic, operational and ad-hoc decisions of managers that are influenced by management accounting principles. The management accounting techniques discussed in this paper is not exhaustive and is limited to the scope of this paper.

Suggested Citation:

Ceil, Chenoy, Changes in Business Processes and Management Accounting Techniques and strategies (January 22, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3521065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3521065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
B Gurd , H Thorne
The Transformation of an Accounting system during Organisational Change: A Longitudinal Study
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 43 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C Horngren , G Sundem , W Stratton , D Burgstahler , J Schatzberg
Introduction to Management Accounting Posted: 2007
S Mahenthrian , R Kershaw
Business Process Change and the Role of the Management Accountant
Scholarship and Professional Work-Business Posted: 1998
A Mahony , J Doran
The Changing Role of Management Accountants; Evidence from the Implementation of ERP Systems in Large Organizations
International Journal of Business and Management , p. 109 - 115 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
843
RANK
644,872
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies