Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
REG-100956-19 - Submission to Treasury and IRS re Source of Income from Certain Sales of Personal Property

11 Pages Posted: 12 Mar 2020

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

David Koontz

Independent

Date Written: January 16, 2020

Abstract

In late December 2019, the Treasury and IRS released proposed regulations (REG-100956-19) in connection with the TCJA change to §863(b), under which property produced and sold by a taxpayer would be sourced solely at the location of production.

This submission to the Treasury and IRS makes suggestions regarding these proposed regulations that are necessary to appropriately reflect modern business models used by multinationals. These business models typically include centralized management of operations that are spread around the world within group members that operate not as independent entities, but rather as cogs within an integrated worldwide business. They also often involve unrelated contract manufacturers.

The areas discussed include:

• Expanding the format of the sourcing regulations so that production activities conducted by MNC group members other than the group member taxpayer are included, and

• Amending the current allocation approach that uses the adjusted basis of production assets because for MNCs its use causes skewed and nonsensical results

The proposed regulations include Prop Reg §1.865-3, which applies the new sourcing rule to nonresident taxpayers affected by §865(e)(2). This proposed regulation needs to provide additional guidance (which is suggested within the submission) for the determination of whether a nonresident taxpayer has “purchased and sold” or has “produced and sold” the relevant inventory property.

The submission includes several additional suggestions.


Keywords: source, MNC, contract manufacturer, effectively connected income, profit shifting, BEPS,

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M. and Koontz, David, REG-100956-19 - Submission to Treasury and IRS re Source of Income from Certain Sales of Personal Property (January 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3522278 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3522278
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,658
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies