Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting Theory

Finance, Insurance and Risk Management Theory and Practices, Vol. 1, Emerald, 2020

16 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2020

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

This article presents a forensic accounting theory. Forensic accounting theory is an explanation of why and how the choice of methods and techniques used to detect creative accounting or fraudulent manipulations in financial reporting, and the outcome of using such methods or techniques, depends on the accounting and non-accounting decisions taken into consideration by the forensic accountant or investigator. The forensic accounting theory developed in this paper is useful to both practitioners and academics, and the resulting contribution to accounting theory and forensic science are useful to the problem-solving process in the global fight against financial crime.

Keywords: fraud, forensic accounting, financial reporting, fraud detection, forensic accounting theory, accounting, financial accounting, forensic science, accounting education, forensic accountant.

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Forensic Accounting Theory (January 1, 2020). Finance, Insurance and Risk Management Theory and Practices, Vol. 1, Emerald, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
S Albrecht , M Romney
Red-flagging management: a validation
Advances in Accounting , volume 3 , p. 323 - 356 Posted: 1986
L Arokiasamy , Cristal-Lee S
Forensic Accounting: Public Acceptance towards Occurrence of Fraud Detection
International Journal of Business and Management , p. 145 - 160 Posted: 2009
G Bolgna , R Linquist
Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting: New Tools and Technique Posted: 1995
Crossref
Ed
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,296
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,056
RANK
36,057
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies