Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Goodwill Valuation

18 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2020

Roberto Moro Visconti

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: April 7, 2019

Abstract

The economic valuation of goodwill is based on an interdisciplinary approach that synergistically considers the legal, accounting, fiscal, and strategic aspects. The controversial concept of goodwill (goodwill if positive, badwill if negative) has always divided lawyers, businesspeople, and economists and is applied in extraordinary transactions, including deficits and surcharges, and in company valuations. The estimate of the damage due to loss of goodwill, linked to the diversion of customers, infringement of exclusivity, counterfeiting or other classic cases, which can hinder the bankability of the damaged company, is also very frequent and never trivial. The customers’ portfolio is one of the most critical components of goodwill.


Keywords: Goodwill; Badwill; Intangible Asset; Valuation; IAS 36; Competitive Advantage Period; Economic Value Added; Market Value Added; Customer Portfolio

Suggested Citation:

Moro Visconti, Roberto, Goodwill Valuation (April 7, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3533871 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3533871
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J De França
Valuation modelling of impairment of non-monetary assets in business management: analytical proposal for IAS 36
International Journal of Development Research Posted: 2018-11
J Feldman S
A Primer on Calculating Goodwill Impairment
Business Valuation Review Posted: 2004-04
Ferr S , Fiorentino R , Garzella S
Goodwill and value creation: insights from Italian pioneers
International Journal of Critical Accounting Posted: 2018-01
Guler L
Has SFAS 142 improved the usefulness of goodwill impairment loss and goodwill balances for investors?
Review of Managerial Science , volume 3 , p. 559 - 592 Posted: 2016-11-12
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,383
RANK
248,130
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies