Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Theoretical Framework and Perspective Regarding the Accounting and the Technology Issues in Greece

Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF), 26: 66, 2019

25 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

In January 2005, the application of IFRS is mandatory and followed by listed companies in European financial markets included listed companies in Regulated markets in Greece, such as Athens Exchange Securities Market, Athens Exchange Derivatives Market, Electronic Secondary Securities Market. Therefore, the framework of the “accounting treatment” has changed, and it is going to change in the future for all kinds of companies regardless of their size. The main purpose of this research is to investigate the adoption of the IFRS convergence movement in Greece, aiming at emphasizing their philosophical basis and value via an in-depth narrative methodology approach with questions. This study explains some of the different elements and dimensions of the financial reporting in Greece and the use of Information and Communications Technology as well as the benefits it can provide as a means of knowledge for students and as an important aid to researchers.

Keywords: IFRS, IFRS for SMEs, New Greek Accounting Standards, Greek GAAP, Greek General Chart of Account, Anglosaxon / French and German Model, rule-based and tax-driven principles, stockholder oriented and principles-based standards, exchanges/financial market, informatics/information/information and commun

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, A Theoretical Framework and Perspective Regarding the Accounting and the Technology Issues in Greece (2019). Multinational Finance Conference Booklet (IF), 26: 66, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Χρηματοοικονομική Λογιστική. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία Posted: 2015
Γ Αληφάντης , Στ
Ενοποιημένες Οικονομικές Καταστάσεις. Αθήνα:Εκδόσεις Διπλογραφία. Αληφάντης, Γ. Στ Posted: 2015
Α Βαζακίδης , Α Σταυρόπουλος , Α Και Χατζης
Λογιστικό Σχέδιο-Μηχανογράφηση Λογιστηρίου. Θεσσαλονίκη Posted: 2010
Χ Βλάχος , Λ Και Λουκάς
Διεθνή Λογιστικά Πρότυπα. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Παπαζήση Γρηγοράκου
Ανάλυση-Ερμηνεία του Ελληνικού Γενικού Λογιστικού Σχεδίου (Γενική και Αναλυτική Λογιστική). Αθήνα: Σάκκουλας Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
140
ABSTRACT VIEWS
896
RANK
475,660
4 Citations
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies