Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Framework for Accounting Software and Finance Packages Used in SMEs Based on FOSS/FLOSS

Applied Informatics Conference Proceedings, 2: 26-39, 2015

17 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

In this era of «information explosion», financial accounting with information systems is becoming more and more accessible. This paper aims to present some effective applications/services for SMEs, such as the free and open-source software (FOSS/FLOSS) and the proprietary software for financial accounting. Due to the ongoing downturn in the Greek economy, the increasing pressure of competitive multinationals but also trends created last, SMEs need to rethink their strategy in order to enhance the image of Greek brands and to ensure the development through a reference to innovation and new information technologies between them. The paper discusses the concepts, dimensions, and questions around information and communication technologies from a business perspective in decision-making. It compares the free and open-source software and proprietary software for financial accounting. This comparison focuses on tables intending to identify the issues and challenges for those involved in the face through these software and applications for them. The paper highlights the particular importance of the free and open-source software (FOSS/FLOSS) and their contributions in financial accounting in favor of SMEs due to budget limitations. Findings suggest that future research should examine a case study for the crucial role of the above information systems and technologies in making appropriate investment decisions, specifying the value of a business unit. The paper highlights the role of information systems for those involved in a business, in emphasizing the department of finance. While much has been written about the information systems /technologies, there has been a lack of highlighting their assistance in financial decisions.

Keywords: IT, Finance-Accounting Decisions

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, A Framework for Accounting Software and Finance Packages Used in SMEs Based on FOSS/FLOSS (2015). Applied Informatics Conference Proceedings, 2: 26-39, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535829
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
C Kenneth , J Laudon , P Laudon
μετάφραση: Γιάννης Κατσαντώνης, Δημήτρης Κωστάκης, επιμέλεια: Βίκυ Μάνθου Posted: 2009
P Achanga
Critical success factors for lean implementation within SMEs
Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 460 - 571 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Al-Johani , A A Youssef , A E
A framework for ERP systems in SME based on cloud computing technology
International Journal on Cloud Computing: Services and Architecture , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2013
D Galani , E Gravas , A Stavropoulos
The Impact of ERP Systems on Accounting Process
Journal of World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology , volume 66 , p. 418 - 423 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,162
RANK
303,670
8 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies