Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can the Analyst's Valuation Process Foster the Development of an Appropriate Stock Recommendation?

Hellenic Finance and Accounting Conference Booklet, 18: 23 (2019)

43 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2020

Maria Dimitriou

University of Macedonia

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The effective investment research report suggests that five steps of the valuation process be required in order to obtain a successful investment decision that the valuation task could bring. Thus, this analysis suggests that following this process, a risk-adjusted DCF valuation model is developed and that we should perceive appropriate target price and stock recommendation as a result along with the valuation task. DCF valuation modeling requires numerous assumptions in estimating the intrinsic value combining valuation models and comparing this value to the market price of the firm’s stock, correcting possible mistakes and improving efficiency. The results may help to improve the understanding of analysts’ valuations, both expected and perceived. The findings also suggest that the information of an effective investment research report should be a crucial stage in the valuation step and can help us to address issues such as how analysts use financial information to generate valuations and stock recommendations.

Suggested Citation:

Dimitriou, Maria, How Can the Analyst's Valuation Process Foster the Development of an Appropriate Stock Recommendation? (2019). Hellenic Finance and Accounting Conference Booklet, 18: 23 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3535857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Ν Νίαρχος
Χρηματοοικονομική Ανάλυση Χρηματοοικονομικών καταστάσεων, 7η έκδοση. Πειραιάς: Εκδόσεις Σταμούλη Posted: 2004
Δ Παπαδόπουλος , Γ Λαζαρίδης
Χρηματοοικονομική Διοίκηση, τεύχος Α-Δ. Θεσσαλονίκη Posted: 2005
Β Παπαδάκης
Στρατηγική των Επιχειρήσεων: Ελληνική και Διεθνής Εμπειρία, 2η έκδοση. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Μπένου Posted: 1998
Ν Πρωτοψάλτης , Αθήνα Εκδόσεις Σταμούλη , Γ Σιώμκος , Ι
Κανόνες αποτίμησης
Στρατηγικό Μάρκετινγκ, 2η Έκδοση. Αθήνα: Εκδόσεις Σταμούλη Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
627,303
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies