Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability and Accounts Receivable Management: A Mini-Review

12 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2020

Maha Al-Mahmoud

Abu Dhabi University

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Date Written: February 15, 2020

Abstract

This is a mini-review conducted to observe in the different industries, how sustainability is applied in accounting and finance management of receivables. The objective is to investigate the application of the sustainability concept and its associated negatives/benefits for management. Qualitative data collection and descriptive analysis is carried out through tabular arrangement and categorizing the journal articles, respective objectives, findings, and recommendations. The findings of this mini-review mainly include: (i) sustainability concepts applied in the accounting and finance filed is lagging in comparison to other fields in business management; (ii) if the negative incident is discussed, this can negatively impact on the investors who judge based on non-financial information; (iii) perception of managers when dealing with property management and capacity; and (iv) characteristic of the owner affected the management payment of properties and sustainability gave advantage for better position.

Suggested Citation:

Al-Mahmoud, Maha and Nobanee, Haitham, Sustainability and Accounts Receivable Management: A Mini-Review (February 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3538711 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3538711
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
A H Ahmad , S Fanelli
Fiscal Sustainability in the Euro-Zone: Is There A Role for Euro-Bonds?
Atlantic Economic Journal , volume 42 , p. 291 - 303 Posted: 2014
Crossref
T Bingham , G Walters
Financial Sustainability Within UK Charities: Community Sport Trusts and Corporate Social Responsibility Partnership. Voluntas , volume 24 , p. 606 - 629 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Fattouh
Capital mobility and sustainability: Evidence from U.S. current account data
Empirical Economics , volume 30 , p. 245 - 253 Posted: 2005
Crossref
E A Hopkins , D C Read , R C Goss
Promoting sustainability in the United States multifamily property management industry
Journal Housing and the Builting Environment , volume 32 , p. 361 - 376 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2,317
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,151
RANK
14,677
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies