Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don't Stop the BEAT

“Don’t Stop the BEAT,” Tax Notes Federal, Feb. 3, 2020, pp. 721-735 and Tax Notes International, Feb. 3, 2020, pp. 533-547.

15 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2020

Shay Shimon Moyal

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School - Doctor of the Science of Law (SJD)

Date Written: February 03, 2020

Abstract

The recent addition to the Internal Revenue Code, the Base Erosion Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT), is a subject of concern for many tax scholars and practitioners. This new provision joins a large family of measures that have been adopted worldwide and in the U.S.; however, unlike the other new International Tax provisions from the 2017 reform, the BEAT has neither a predecessor in prior laws nor in former proposals. To start, the phrase “Base Erosion” itself lacks clarity. Furthermore, the relatively short amount of time lawmakers took to enact the addition and the lack of any stated objectives require an inquiry into the objectives and original intent of this complex section of the code. This paper seeks to illuminate the original intent of the BEAT and the expansive language of its provisions by examining multiple factors such as its structure, legislative history, other International Tax principles, and the BEAT’s similarities to recent international tax trends – like Pillar II of the OECD BEPS or the Digital Services Minimum Taxes around the globe. The mechanics and the language of the BEAT demonstrate major inconsistencies and ambiguities in its application. The broad definition of Related Parties suggests that one of its intents was to cover for the failure of the transfer pricing set of rules in the code. The relatively short legislative history shows some confusion as to the term Base Erosion at the beginning; however, the intent of this provision became clearer as the discussions progressed. The outbound and inbound Base Erosion provisions were enacted to cover for the failure of the current source rules to reflect the benefits that are provided by the U.S. to these taxpayers and as a unilateral international tax provisions that applies the Single Tax principle to set a minimum tax rate. This paper therefore leans on the similarities between the BEAT and the recent Digital Services Minimum Tax bills, Pillar II of the OECD BEPS, and the stated objectives of these bills, to examine the original intent of the BEAT based on its structure and the legislative history.

Keywords: International Tax Law, the Single Tax Principle, the BEAT, BEPS

Suggested Citation:

Moyal, Shay Shimon, Don't Stop the BEAT (February 03, 2020). “Don’t Stop the BEAT,” Tax Notes Federal, Feb. 3, 2020, pp. 721-735 and Tax Notes International, Feb. 3, 2020, pp. 533-547., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3539601
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
758
RANK
508,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies