Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Partial Payment Rule of Code Sec. 6694(c) Continues to Serve as Trap for the Unprepared Tax Return Preparer: Riter v. United States

J. Tax Practice & Proc., Vol. 20, No. 3, 23 (April-May 2019)

7 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2020

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: April-May 2019

Abstract

The U.S. District Court for the District of Utah, in Riter v United States, dismissed a tax-return preparer’s refund claim as untimely filed and denied review of the preparer penalties assessed against him pursuant to Code Sec. 6694. The Utah district court reached the same result, on essentially similar fact, as did the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals last summer, in Taylor v. United States. Taylor likewise dismissed a tax preparer’s action that sought a refund of Code Sec. 6694 penalties because the claim had also been untimely filed.

These decisions highlight the importance of strict compliance with the shortened filing deadline imposed by Sec. 6694(c)(2), if a tax-return preparer wants to take advantage of the statutory exception to the full payment rule.

Keywords: IRS, Tax Return Preparer, Penalties, Refund Jurisdiction, Full Payment Rule

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., Partial Payment Rule of Code Sec. 6694(c) Continues to Serve as Trap for the Unprepared Tax Return Preparer: Riter v. United States (April-May 2019). J. Tax Practice & Proc., Vol. 20, No. 3, 23 (April-May 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3543057
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
872
RANK
420,621
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies