Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Private Pensions: IRS and DOL Should Strengthen Oversight of Executive Retirement Plans

Private Pensions: IRS and DOL Should Strengthen Oversight of Executive Retirement Plans, GAO-20-70 (Washington D.C.: January 28, 2020).

76 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2020

David Lin

Government Accountability Office (GAO)

Ted Burik

Government Accountability Office (GAO)

Tamara Cross

Government Accountability Office (GAO)

Charles A. Jeszeck

Government Accountability Office (GAO)

Date Written: February 28, 2020

Abstract

What GAO Found: Executive retirement plans allow select managers or highly compensated employees to save for retirement by deferring compensation and taxes. As of 2017, more than 400 of the large public companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock market index offered such plans to almost 2,300 of their top executives, totaling about $13 billion in accumulated benefit promises. Top executives at large public companies generally accumulated more plan benefits than top executives at the smaller public companies in the Russell 3000 stock market index. Advantages of these plans include their ability to help executives increase retirement savings and potentially reduce tax liability, but the plans come with risks as well. To receive tax deferral, federal law requires the deferred compensation to remain part of a company’s assets and subject to creditor claims until executives receive distributions (see figure). Department of Treasury officials and industry experts said executive retirement plans can be tax-advantaged and may have revenue effects for the federal government; however, the revenue effects are currently unknown.

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) oversees executive retirement plans for compliance with federal tax laws. For example, IRS must ensure that key executives are taxed on deferred compensation in certain cases where that compensation has been set aside, such as when a company that sponsors a qualified defined benefit retirement plan is in bankruptcy. However, IRS audit instructions lack sufficient information on what data to collect or questions to ask to help its auditors know if companies are complying with this requirement. As a result, IRS cannot ensure that companies are reporting this compensation as part of key executives’ income for taxation. The Department of Labor (DOL) oversees these plans to ensure that only eligible employees participate in them since these plans are excluded from most of the federal substantive protections that cover retirement plans for rank-and-file employees. DOL requires companies to report the number of participants in the plan; however, the one-time single page filing does not collect information on the job title or salary of executives or the percentage of the company’s workforce participating in these plans. Such key information could allow DOL to better identify plans that may be including ineligible employees. Without reviewing its reporting requirements to ensure adequate useful information, DOL may continue to lack insight into the make-up of these plans and will lack assurance that only select managers and highly compensated employees are participating.

Keywords: top hat, deferred compensation, nonqualified deferred compensation, SERP

Suggested Citation:

Lin, David and Burik, Ted and Cross, Tamara and Jeszeck, Charles A., Private Pensions: IRS and DOL Should Strengthen Oversight of Executive Retirement Plans (February 28, 2020). Private Pensions: IRS and DOL Should Strengthen Oversight of Executive Retirement Plans, GAO-20-70 (Washington D.C.: January 28, 2020)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3545975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Charles Jeszeck
512-7215 or jeszeckc@gao
David Lin ; Ted , Dan Burik , David Reed ; Joanna Powers , Colenn Berry , Sherwin Berracasa , Nina Chapman , Sarah Daoud , Laura Gilliland , Angie Hoffrey , Kirsten Jacobs , Ted Lauber , Avani Leslie , Sheila R Locke , James R Mccoy , Jeffrey Mctigue , Miller
Also contributing to this report were James Bennett
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
806
RANK
889,370
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Bankruptcy, Reorganization & Creditors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies