Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Can Resume Charging PTIN User Fees But Final Cost Still to Be Determined

NYS Society of CPAs, TaxStringer (June 1, 2019), Pace University Research Paper

3 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2020 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: June 1, 2019

Abstract

Since 2010, the IRS has required all tax return preparers to obtain a preparer tax identification number (PTIN) and pay a user fee for that PTIN. In June, 2017, the IRS suspended the user fee for the PTIN. Tax return preparers must still obtain the PTIN, or renew their existing PTINs, but Steele v. United States (2017) held that the IRS did not have independent authority to charge a user fee. The court held, “In sum, the Court finds that although the IRS may require the use of PTINs, it may not charge fees for issuing PTINs.”

In 2019, that decision was reversed on appeal by Montrois v. United States, which held that the IRS can require tax preparers to pay a PTIN user fee. Notably, however, Montrois did not determine whether the current PTIN fee is reasonable in relation to the service provided to, or benefit received by, the tax return preparer in exchange for the payment. Instead, that question was remanded back to the district court for determination. Accordingly, formal resumption of the PTIN user fee must still await the court's determination of a "reasonable" fee for the PTIN.

Keywords: IRS, Tax Return Preparers, PTINs, Tax Practice & Procedure

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., IRS Can Resume Charging PTIN User Fees But Final Cost Still to Be Determined (June 1, 2019). NYS Society of CPAs, TaxStringer (June 1, 2019), Pace University Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3547024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Buckley V. United , Slip States , Op
Nor, the court continued, was there any evidence presented that there was a "material fact in dispute regarding whether the $50.00 annual renewal fee is excessive , p. 8 - 9
As for the vendor's fee, that would go to Accenture [third-party vendor], whose contract with the government requires it to do (and who has in fact done) all the things necessary to issue and renew PTINs , volume 8 Posted: 2016
G Frank , Colella , Esq , M Ll , Cpa
is a clinical assistant professor in legal studies & taxation at Pace University's Lubin School of Business and a practicing attorney. His law practice is focused primarily on federal taxation, estate planning and administration, and corporate transactions. He teaches courses in tax practice & procedure, business law, and constitutional law. Mr. Colella has published and lectured extensively on tax-related matters
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies