Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2019

Tax Lawyer, Vol. 73, No. 3, 2020

147 Pages Posted: 13 Mar 2020

Bruce A. McGovern

South Texas College of Law Houston

Cassady V. Brewer

Georgia State University - College of Law

James M. Delaney

University of Wyoming College of Law

Date Written: March 4, 2020

Abstract

This article summarizes and provides context to understand the most important developments in federal income taxation for the year 2019. The items discussed primarily consist of the following: (i) significant amendments to the Internal Revenue Code; (ii) important judicial decisions; and (iii) noteworthy administrative rulings and regulations promulgated by the Service and the Treasury Department. This article primarily focuses on subjects of broad general interest – tax accounting rules, determination of gross income, allowable deductions, treatment of capital gains and losses, corporate and partnership taxation, exempt organizations, and procedure and penalties. This article generally does not address items relating to federal estate and gift taxation, income taxation of trusts and estates, qualified pension and profit-sharing plans, international taxation, or specialized industries such as banking, insurance, and financial services.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Income taxation, Corporate taxation, Partnership taxation, Tax shelters, Tax procedure, Individual income taxation, Tax-exempt, Tax-exempt organizations

JEL Classification: A19, H20, H24, H25, H26, H50, K34, K40

Suggested Citation:

McGovern, Bruce A. and Brewer, Cassady V. and Delaney, James M., Recent Developments in Federal Income Taxation: The Year 2019 (March 4, 2020). Tax Lawyer, Vol. 73, No. 3, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3548950 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3548950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
)) requiring participants in qualified cost-sharing arrangements to include stock-based compensation costs in the cost pool in order to comply with the arm's length standard. The court found that the regulations, which overturned the Tax Court's decision in Xilinx Inc. v. Commissioner, 125 T.C. 37 (2005), aff'd, 598 F.3d 1191 (9th Cir. 2010), holding that, under the 1995 cost-sharing regulations, controlled entities entering into qualified cost-sharing agreements need not share stock-based compensation costs because parties operating at arm's length would not do so, were not the product of reasoned decision making as required by Administrative Procedure Act § 706(2)(A) and Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co
a reviewed, unanimous opinion by Judge Marvel, the Tax Court invalidated regulations under § 482 (Reg. § 1 Posted: 1983
and otherwise signaled fealty to general administrative law norms in the tax context, the IRS and the Department of Justice have repeatedly pursued a narrow construction of Mayo Foundation, and the Tax Court has often been happy to play along. Not today. First, notwithstanding the Supreme Court's conclusion in Mayo Foundation that general authority Treasury regulations issued under Section 7805(a) carry the force of law, in the Internal Revenue Manual and elsewhere, the IRS has continued to assert that most of its regulations are interpretative rules exempt from APA notice-andcomment procedural requirements. Applying the Ninth Circuit's version of the American Mining Congress
Generally, interpretive rules merely explain preexisting substantive law. Substantive (or legislative) rules by contrast, "create rights, impose obligations, or effect a change in existing law".)], the Tax Court held that the Treasury regulation at issue in Altera was a legislative rule because the regulation was necessary to sustain an adjustment to the taxpayer's income and because Treasury expressly invoked general rulemaking authority under Section 7805(a) in promulgating the regulation. In reaching that decision, moreover, the Tax Court also concluded more broadly that regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 7805(a) "carry the force of law" and that "the Code imposes penalties for failing to follow them," such that "'Congress has delegated legislative power to' Treasury" through that grant of general rulemaking authorityi.e., making regulations promulgated under that authority legislative rules subject to notice-and-comment rulemaking requirements. Elsewhere in the opinion, the Tax Court acknowledged that its past practice of referring "to regulations issued pursuant to specific grants of rulemaking authority as legislative regulations and regulations issued pursuant to Treasury's general rulemaking authority, under sec. 7805(a), as interpretive regulations" was inconsistent with general administrative law use of the legislative and interpretive labels
standard for distinguishing between legislative regulations that require notice-and-comment rulemaking and interpretative regulations that do not [Hemp Indus. Ass'n v. DEA, 333 F.3d 1082 Posted: 2003
U
Because any appeal of this case will be considered by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, the Court turned to Util
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,085
RANK
337,844
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies