Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Characteristics, Valuation Methods, and Information Use of Valuation Specialists

Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-62

69 Pages Posted: 23 Mar 2020

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Devon Erickson

Utah State University - Huntsman School of Business - School of Accountancy

Adam M. Esplin

University of Texas at El Paso

Teri Lombardi Yohn

Emory University Goizueta Business School

Date Written: March 11, 2020

Abstract

We provide insights into the inputs and valuation models used by valuation specialists. We survey 172 valuation specialists and conduct several follow-up interviews covering various topics, including the valuation inputs, models, and industry information that they use, as well as how they estimate long-term growth and the cost of capital. We find that valuation specialists rely on their professional judgment to select a valuation model but prefer the discounted cash flow (DCF) model. They primarily rely on the firm’s historical performance when forecasting the financial statements, but communication with management is particularly relevant for forecasting future earnings or cash flows. When estimating the cost of capital, they most commonly use the risk-free rate with subjective adjustments. The results of our study provide insights on the information use of valuation specialists that are relevant to other valuation specialists, managers, academic researchers, and regulators.

Keywords: Valuation, Valuation Specialists, Private Company, Valuation Model Choice

JEL Classification: M41, G12, G17, G32

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Erickson, Devon and Esplin, Adam M. and Yohn, Teri Lombardi, The Characteristics, Valuation Methods, and Information Use of Valuation Specialists (March 11, 2020). Kelley School of Business Research Paper No. 2020-62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3553019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3553019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
B Groysberg , P M Healy , D A Maber
What drives sell-side analyst compensation at high-status investment banks
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 49 , issue 4 , p. 969 - 1000 Posted: 2011
Crossref
L Harris , S Jackson , J Owens
Earnings management and employee selection Posted: 2015
A Hausman
Innovativeness among small businesses: Theory and propositions for future research
Industrial marketing management , volume 34 , issue 8 , p. 773 - 782 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A Hausman , R Fontenot
Generational business relationships: A multi-site case study of family owned businesses
Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 41 - 58 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
513
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,028
RANK
125,719
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies