Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is (Systematic) Value Investing Dead?

Journal of Portfolio Management, Forthcoming

57 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2020 Last revised: 12 Oct 2020

Ronen Israel

Yale School of Management; AQR Capital Management, LLC

Kristoffer Laursen

AQR Capital Management, LLC

Scott A. Richardson

London Business School; Acadian Asset Management

Date Written: March 14, 2020

Abstract

Value investing is the age-old investment strategy that involves buying securities that appear cheap relative to some fundamental anchor. For equity investors that anchor is typically a measure of intrinsic value linked to financial statement variables. Recently, there has been much written about the death of value investing. While undoubtedly many systematic approaches to value investing have suffered recently, we find the suggestion that value investing is dead to be premature. Both from a theoretical and empirical perspective, expectations of fundamental information have been and continue to be an important driver of security returns. We also address a series of critiques levelled at value investing and find them generally lacking in substance.

Keywords: value investing, fundamental analysis, valuation

JEL Classification: G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Israel, Ronen and Laursen, Kristoffer and Richardson, Scott Anthony, Is (Systematic) Value Investing Dead? (March 14, 2020). Journal of Portfolio Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3554267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
8 Citations
David Blitz , Matthias Xaver Hanauer
Resurrecting the Value Premium
27 Pages · Posted: 5 Oct 2020 · Last revised: 23 Oct 2020 · Downloads: 2,974
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mehak Sharma , Anshul Jain , David McMillan
Role of size and risk effects in value anomaly: Evidence from the Indian stock market
Cogent Economics & Finance , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1838694 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Amitabh Dugar , Jacob Pozharny
Equity Investing in the Age of Intangibles
Financial Analysts Journal , p. 1 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Fahiz Baba Yara
Machine Learning and Return Predictability Across Firms, Time and Portfolios
73 Pages · Posted: 2 Dec 2020 · Last revised: 7 Jan 2021 · Downloads: 460
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10,719
ABSTRACT VIEWS
26,418
RANK
1,141
8 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wealth Management (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies