Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Streaming of Franking Credits Curtailed by Bamford-Induced Amendments - An Unintended Consequence?

Australian Tax Review, 48(3): 190-218, 2019

37 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2020 Last revised: 13 Jul 2020

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Dale Boccabella

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

In 2011, the provisions providing for allocation to beneficiaries of a trust’s franked distributions and associated tax attributes (franking credit tax offsets) were amended in light of the High Court decision in Commissioner of Taxation v Bamford. The concern from Bamford was that streaming of receipts of a discretionary trust may no longer be available in light of the proportionate view interpretation of the rule that allocates the trust’s taxable income to beneficiaries. The overwhelming aim of the 2011 amendments was to cement the streaming of a trust’s franked distributions and associated tax attributes (and net capital gains) to selected beneficiaries to the exclusion of other entitled beneficiaries. However, the amended provisions prevent streaming of franking credits where the distribution is extinguished by related expenses. However, the old provisions, as confirmed in the recent Thomas v Federal Commissioner of Taxation decisions, permitted streaming in these situations.

Keywords: Discretionary trust, franking credits, streaming, Bamford, Thomas, franked distributions

JEL Classification: K34, H25

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Boccabella, Dale, Streaming of Franking Credits Curtailed by Bamford-Induced Amendments - An Unintended Consequence? (December 2, 2019). Australian Tax Review, 48(3): 190-218, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3555627
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
the section would seem to apply when a beneficiary receives an amount of trust income that is not represented by a s 97(1) amount. However, the ATO does not appear to apply the section in these "plain vanilla" circumstances of a domestic Australian trust. As an alternate, CGT event E4 may also apply in the case of a fixed trust. CGT event E4 will not apply in the case of a discretionary trust: Taxation Determination TD , volume 28 Posted: 2003
Put briefly, the trustee is assessed on the whole of the taxable income, which would include the franked distribution and the gross-up. The trustee is entitled to the franking credit tax offset: s , p. 207 - 252
207-B) are subject to the refundable tax offset rules, unless otherwise stated later in s 67-25. Subsection 67-25(1B) states that where a trustee is liable to be assessed under s 99A, the refundable tax offset rule does not apply. The end result is that where the trustee assessment is under s 99, the trustee can use the franking credit tax offset against tax liability and any excess tax offset is refunded in cash. Where s 99A applies, the franking credit tax offset can be used against tax liability, but any excess tax offset will not be refunded
The trustee is entitled to the franking credit tax offset: s , p. 207 - 252
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,097
RANK
772,528
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies