Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Analysis of Selected Media Companies in India

Futuristic approach towards employability and entrepreneurship, GGNIMT, National Press Associates, 187-193, 2018

7 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2020

Chitsimran

PG Department of Commerce and Management, Khalsa College for Women, Amritsar; Mittal School of Business, Lovely Professional University

Garima Tungal

Lovely Professional University

Paras Mehta

Lovely Professional University

Date Written: October 31, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study was to study the financial ratios such as liquidity ratios, solvency ratios, profitability ratios and leverage, to comment upon the financial performance of selected media companies in India. It will help to identify the strength and weakness of these companies. The top companies were selected for the purpose of this study, and their ratios were analyzed. It will help to comment upon the performance of the companies and also help to compare their results.

Suggested Citation:

, Chitsimran and Tungal, Garima and Mehta, Paras, Financial Analysis of Selected Media Companies in India (October 31, 2018). Futuristic approach towards employability and entrepreneurship, GGNIMT, National Press Associates, 187-193, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3557071
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Books: 1. Management Accounting-R
Crossref
Management Accounting -Dr. M. Sheik Mohaned Posted: 2012
Crossref
Research Methodology -P. Saravanavel -Kitabmahal Allahabad
Crossref
- G R Research Methodology
Kothari -Second Edition Jaipur -May 1990. Financial Management -Sawalia Bihari verma -Asian Books privaid ltd Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
RANK
277,436
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies