Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Maintaining Accounting Records and Profitability of SMEs: Evidence from Jaffna District in Sri Lanka

IJESC International Journal of Engineering Science and Computing Volume 10 Issue no.3, 2020

10 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2020

Dr. Logeswary Sooriyakumaran

Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna

Date Written: March 19, 2020

Abstract

The need of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in numerous economies is stressed because of they assume imperative jobs in the economy of both developed and developing nations through production of work and decrease of destitution among populace. Nonetheless, dominant part of SMEs has neglected to perceive the significance of their maintainability and primary source to keep their business gainfulness by utilizing very much organized keeping accounting records that would have empowered them to keep the exact financial statements. The examination set out to investigate the degree to the continuing keeping accounting records are being bolstered to procuring productivity of SMEs. Surveys were managed to 218 SMEs proprietors out of which 200 questionnaires were substantial and broke down utilizing Likert scale. It was seen that while respondents concur that significant advantages of keeping legitimate records is to know the productivity of the business and that record keeping is vital to the achievement of the business. The investigation prescribes that SMEs administrators should endeavor to keep the best possible keeping accounting records to recognize and expand the benefit just as manageability of the entity.

Keywords: Maintaining accounting records, Small Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Profitability, Sri Lanka, Jaffna District

Suggested Citation:

Sooriyakumaran, Dr. Logeswary, Maintaining Accounting Records and Profitability of SMEs: Evidence from Jaffna District in Sri Lanka (March 19, 2020). IJESC International Journal of Engineering Science and Computing Volume 10 Issue no.3, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3557336
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
K S Abayomi , A J Adegoke
The imperatives of accounting and financial records in the development of small scale enterprises in Nigeria
Research Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 7 , issue 14 , p. 43 - 52 Posted: 2016
O A Abdul-Rahamon , A T &amp;adejare
The Analysis of the impact of Accounting Records Keeping on the Performance of the Small Scale Enterprises
International Journal of Academic Research in Business and Social Sciences , volume 4 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C K Abuka , M C &amp;ekwe
Accounting Skills for Sustainable Development of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises in Taraba State of Nigeria
International Journal of Education Learning and Development , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 39 - 49 Posted: 2014
G O Ademola , O J Samuel , O &amp;ifedolapo
The roles of record keeping in the survival and growth of small scale enterprises in Ijumu local government area of Kogi State
Global Journal of Management and Business Research , volume 12 , issue 13 , p. 56 - 66 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
660
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,742
RANK
91,345
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies