Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basic Estate Planning: The Annual Gift Tax Exclusion

48 Brooklyn Barrister No. 2, p. 7 (1996)

12 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2020

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: October 1, 1996

Abstract

Perhaps the most flexible estate planning tool is the annual gift tax exclusion. The annual exclusion, when properly used as part of a larger estate planning program, can significantly increase the size of the donor's estate that ultimately reaches the beneficiaries. When combined with the annual exclusion available to a spouse, also known as "gift-splitting," the amount that can be "gifted" is doubled. In addition, when used for gifts to grandchildren or similar descendants, generation-skipping transfer taxes can also be avoided.

This Article provides the general practitioner an overview of planning opportunities available with the annual exclusion.

Keywords: Estate Planning, Estate Tax, Gift Tax, Annual Exclusion, Section 2503(b), Crummy Powers

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., Basic Estate Planning: The Annual Gift Tax Exclusion (October 1, 1996). 48 Brooklyn Barrister No. 2, p. 7 (1996), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3563010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
710
RANK
588,428
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Estate Planning eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies