Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS's Hard Line on Offshore Compliance: Recent Developments Encourage Voluntary Disclosure

The CPA Journal, March 2015 Edition

2 Pages Posted: 8 May 2020

Michael Sardar

Kostelanetz & Fink LLP

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

For decades, the IRS has pursued U.S. taxpayers who maintain hidden offshore income and assets. Until recently, most tax professionals would have agreed that the IRS’s success in the area of offshore tax evasion was limited at best. The IRS has greatly ramped up its offshore compliance efforts over the past eight years. For the most part, these efforts have been met with success. Yet some taxpayers continue to maintain unreported foreign assets hoping to get away with noncompliance, or hoping that they will face no repercussions when they get caught. In reality, the IRS is becoming more skilled at discovering offshore noncompliance, and it has made it clear that the price of noncompliance will go up.

Keywords: Offshore Compliance, Voluntary Disclosure

Suggested Citation:

Sardar, Michael, The IRS's Hard Line on Offshore Compliance: Recent Developments Encourage Voluntary Disclosure (March 1, 2015). The CPA Journal, March 2015 Edition, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3576115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies