Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Many Faces of Form 3520

The CPA Journal, August 2017 Edition

3 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Ian Weinstock

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: August 1, 2017

Abstract

The Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) Form 114, the Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts—colloquially known as FBAR— has become famous due to the huge potential penalties imposed on taxpayers whose failure to file is deemed to be willful. As a result, tax preparers know to ask whether individual clients own foreign accounts before preparing those clients’ income tax returns. But not all foreign accounts are owned by individuals. If an entity (i.e., a nonnatural person) owns a foreign account, when does the entity itself need to file an FBAR, and when does an FBAR need to be filed by someone connected to the entity?

Keywords: : Form 3520

Suggested Citation:

Weinstock, Ian, The Many Faces of Form 3520 (August 1, 2017). The CPA Journal, August 2017 Edition, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
417
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies