Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Issues with Revocable Trusts at the Grantor’s Death

CPA Journal, September 2015 Edition

2 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Ian Weinstock

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: September 1, 2015

Abstract

Revocable trusts are an increasingly popular substitute for wills, and for good reason: In many jurisdictions, funding a revocable trust during life can result in substantial time and cost savings after death by avoiding the state law probate system. A funded revocable trust can also be useful in incapacity planning during the grantor's life. Even an unfunded revocable trust that operates only as a receptacle for the pourover of an estate provides certain advantages after the grantor's death, including keeping the details of the grantor's testamentary dispositions private. This article addresses the recurring tax and reporting issues that arise when the grantor of a revocable trust dies.

Keywords: Revocable Trusts, Tax Issues

Suggested Citation:

Weinstock, Ian, Tax Issues with Revocable Trusts at the Grantor’s Death (September 1, 2015). CPA Journal, September 2015 Edition, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3577160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
619
RANK
508,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies