Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Kovel Privilege: How Does It Work?

CPA Journal, June 2015 Edition

3 Pages Posted: 11 May 2020

Sharon L. McCarthy

Kostelanetz & Fink, LLP

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

A client’s communications with an accountant enjoy a limited privilege under the Tax Code. In non-criminal tax matters, that privilege applies to any communication that “would be considered a privileged communication if it were between a taxpayer and an attorney” [IRC section 7525(a)(1)]. In the criminal context, however, no such privilege applies to communications between an accountant and a client, except when the accountant assists an attorney in providing legal advice to a client. This has been well-established law since 1961, when the Second Circuit Court of Appeals decided United States v. Kovel [296 F.2d 918 (2d Cir. 1961)].

This article will describe the basis for the Kovel privilege in the criminal tax context, the types of communications covered by the privilege, and the steps that should be followed to ensure that the privilege will be upheld if, for example, an accountant is subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury. Basis for Kovel Privilege Louis Kovel was a former IRS agent who worked at a tax law firm, where he assisted the firm’s attorneys in representing clients with tax issues. Kovel was subpoenaed to testify before a Manhattan federal grand jury that was investigating one of the firm’s clients. Although the law firm informed the prosecutor that Kovel, an employee, had worked under the attorneys’ direct supervision in representing the client and therefore could not reveal privileged communications, the prosecutor’s position was that the attorney-client privilege did not extend to a non-attorney. The judge agreed, and instructed Kovel to answer all questions put to him in the grand jury. Kovel answered some, but not all, of the prosecutor’s questions in the grand jury, again asserting that he was bound by the attorney-client privilege not to reveal his client’s confidences. Kovel was held in contempt and sentenced to one year in prison.

Keywords: Kovel Privilege

Suggested Citation:

McCarthy, Sharon L., The Kovel Privilege: How Does It Work? (2015). CPA Journal, June 2015 Edition, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3578059
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,331
RANK
432,122
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies