Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sick Leave Accounting: Analysis of Non-Standard Cases

International Journal of Management (IJM), 11 (3), pp. 390–398, 2020

9 Pages Posted: 22 May 2020

Julia Moroz

Department of Accounting, Taxation and Audit, Zhytomyr National Agroecological University, Zhytomyr, Ukraine

Maria Telovata

Department of Accounting and Taxation, National Academy of Statistics, Accounting and Audit, Kyiv, Ukraine

Svitlana Syrtseva

Department of Accounting and Taxation, Mykolayiv National Agrarian University, Mykolayiv, Ukraine

Tetyana Haiduchok

Department of Accounting, Taxation and Audit, Zhytomyr National Agroecological University, Zhytomyr, Ukraine

Iryna Babich

Department of Accounting and Auditing, Lutsk National Technical, Lutsk, Ukraine

Oleksandr Yurchenko

Department of Accounting and Taxation, National Academy of Statistics, Accounting and Audit, Kyiv, Ukraine

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The article considers the procedure of sick leave accounting, presents a general methodology for sick leave accounting. On practical example, non-standard cases were considered and analyzed; namely, the employee fell ill on the first working day; less than 12 calendar months worked; insurance experience less than six months in the last 12 months; in the accounting period - annual leave and temporary disability; part-time and sick leave accounting for downtime.

Keywords: Accounting, Insurance Experience, Part-Time, Sick Leave, Sick Leave Certificate, SSC

Suggested Citation:

Moroz, Julia and Telovata, Maria and Syrtseva, Svitlana and Haiduchok, Tetyana and Babich, Iryna and Yurchenko, Oleksandr, Sick Leave Accounting: Analysis of Non-Standard Cases (2020). International Journal of Management (IJM), 11 (3), pp. 390–398, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3585170
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Annalisa Scognamiglio
Paid Sick Leave and Employee Absences Posted: 2019-12
Crossref
A Кwilinski
Implementation of Blockchain Technology in Accounting Sphere
Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal , volume 23 , issue SI2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2019
M V Dykha
Economic mechanism toolkit for state regulation of socioeconomic processes
Actual Problems of Economics , volume 5 , issue 179 , p. 20 - 29 Posted: 2016
A Kwilinski , I Ruzhytskyi , V Patlachuk , O Patlachuk , B Kaminska
Environmental Taxes as a Condition of Business Responsibility in the Conditions of Sustainable Development
Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues , volume 22 , issue SI2 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
796
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies