Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Announces New PTIN User Fee in Proposed Regulations

Procedurally Taxing, April 28, 2020

3 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2020

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: April 28, 2020

Abstract

The IRS has announced the imposition of a new PTIN (practitioner tax identification number) user fee. The proposed regulations require tax practitioners to pay $21 (plus a vendor fee) to obtain, or renew, their PTIN. This is a marked reduction from the previous (pre-suspension) $33 fee, which itself had been a significant reduction from the original PTIN fee of $50 (plus the vendor fee).

After the district court in Steele held the IRS lacked the authority to impose the fee, they briefly suspended the issuance of PTINs altogether. However, the Service quickly resumed issuance of the PTIN – without charging the corresponding user fee. Last year, in Montrois, the D.C. Circuit reversed Steele and held the IRS could properly impose a PTIN user fee. Unresolved, however, was the question of how much could be charged for the PTIN. That issue was remanded to the district court for determination.

Keywords: PTIN, IRS, Tax Practice and Procedure, Tax Return Preparers

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., IRS Announces New PTIN User Fee in Proposed Regulations (April 28, 2020). Procedurally Taxing, April 28, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3587769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
720
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies