Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Correcting Excess Contributions to IRAs

The Tax Adviser, Vol. 51, No. 4, April 2020

18 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020 Last revised: 2 Dec 2020

Vorris J. Blankenship

Tax Planning for Retirees

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

Taxpayers are generally eligible to make regular annual contributions to their IRAs that are limited to fixed dollar amounts established by statute. The contributions are further limited to the amount of the taxpayer’s taxable compensation. Contributions to IRAs in excess of those limits (excess contributions) are generally subject to a 6 percent excise tax. The 6 percent excise tax may also apply to a failed rollover to a traditional IRA from another traditional IRA or from a qualified retirement plan. A failed Roth conversion from a qualified plan or traditional IRA may be similarly treated.

Depending on circumstances, a taxpayer may be able to eliminate an excess contribution attributable to a regular contribution to a traditional IRA by using either a corrective distribution, a dollar-limited distribution, an ordinary distribution, absorption, or recharacterization.

The techniques for eliminating the excess contribution part of a failed rollover to a traditional IRA are generally the same. However, most of those techniques do not solve the problem of the taxability of the distribution part of a failed rollover. Nevertheless, under certain limited circumstances, a dollar-limited distribution may be particularly useful in eliminating the excess contribution part of a failed rollover to a traditional IRA. In addition, for a few types of failed rollovers, recharacterizations may be particularly effective at both eliminating excess contributions and making the distribution part of the failed rollover nontaxable.

Depending on the circumstances, a taxpayer may be able to eliminate an excess contribution attributable to a regular contribution to a Roth IRA by using either a corrective distribution, an ordinary distribution, absorption, or recharacterization. The techniques for eliminating the excess contribution part of a failed Roth conversion are generally the same. However, most of those techniques do not change the continuing taxability of the distribution part of a failed Roth conversion. That is where recharacterizations might play a more significant role.

Suggested Citation:

Blankenship, Vorris J., Correcting Excess Contributions to IRAs (April 1, 2020). The Tax Adviser, Vol. 51, No. 4, April 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3592881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3592881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
975
RANK
653,956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies