Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unentertaining Business Meals and Entertaining Employee Meetings

167 Tax Notes Federal 231, 2020

7 Pages Posted: 4 Jun 2020

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: April 13, 2020

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act generally eliminated the deductibility of any business-related entertainment expenses. Although “entertainment” has historically included meals with clients and for other business development purposes, Treasury and the IRS concluded in late 2018 that business-related meals are no longer considered entertainment and can continue to be 50% deductible as under prior law.

In a world in which the meal portion of business entertainment is 50% deductible and the rest is 0% deductible, Treasury and the IRS have issued guidance to reduce the incentive to inflate the meal expenses.

Conversely, there are some types of entertainment expenses that are still 100% deductible, but the meal portion of those expenses may only be 50% deductible. A taxpayer may want to treat some expenses as solely entertainment and to deflate the meal portion of those expenses in order to deduct 100% of them. Absent technical corrections to the statute to the contrary, some taxpayers may find it preferable to enhance their employee and director meetings with tasteful entertainment to maximize their tax deductions.

Keywords: 274, 274(e)(5), Entertainment, TCJA, Business Meals, Substantiation, Taco Bell, Franchise Wars

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Unentertaining Business Meals and Entertaining Employee Meetings (April 13, 2020). 167 Tax Notes Federal 231, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3594658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
728
RANK
314,322
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies