Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Case Study: Effectively Connected Income

167 TAX NOTES FEDERAL 217 (APR. 13, 2020)

15 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2020

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

David Koontz

Independent

Date Written: April 13, 2020

Abstract

We have written a series of articles over the past five years that explores application of the effectively connected income (ECI) rules to common profit-shifting structures. For the most part, those articles provide hypothetical examples to demonstrate how the ECI rules should apply. The December 2019 release, however, of a Hong Kong Inland Revenue Board of Review decision (“Decision”), decided in early 2018, provides a real-life example of how a U.S. company shifting income into its wholly-owned Hong Kong subsidiary causes some portion of its income to be subject to ECI taxation.

Conveniently, the Decision provides considerable detail of the internal operations for an unidentified group that is assumed throughout this case study to be a U.S.-based multinational. We describe and analyze this detail within the case study and show how the facts result in ECI.
More specifically, this case study shows how the Hong Kong subsidiary, which would be a controlled foreign corporation under the subpart F rules, was engaged in a U.S. trade or business under U.S. tax law and how it had ECI, which is directly taxable in the U.S. Thus, the Hong Kong subsidiary was required to file and report its ECI on Form 1120-F (U.S. Income Tax Return of a Foreign Corporation) for each year beginning from its 1999 incorporation.

This case study also briefly touches on subpart F and certain transfer pricing and re-characterization issues.

Keywords: ECI, Effectively Connected Income, International Taxation, U.S. Trade or Business, subpart F, section 482, transfer pricing ,

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M. and Koontz, David, A Case Study: Effectively Connected Income (April 13, 2020). 167 TAX NOTES FEDERAL 217 (APR. 13, 2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3598733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
Kadet
Attacking Profit Shifting," supra note 8; Kadet and Koontz
Thomas J Kelley , Koontz , Kadet
Profit Shifting: Effectively Connected Income and Financial Statement Risks
221 J. Acct , volume 48 Posted: 2016-02
Kadet , ; Koontz , Koontz Kadet
Profit-Shifting Structures: Making Ethical Judgments Objectively, Part 2
Tax Notes Posted: 2016-06-27
Kadet ; Kadet Koontz , ; Koontz , Koontz Kadet
Internet Platform Companies and Base Erosion -Issue and Solution
Tax Notes Federal Posted: 2017-12-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
138
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
481,321
2 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies