Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contribution and Distribution Flexibility and Tax Pass-Through Entities

Florida Tax Review, Vol. 23, p. 349, 2019

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 638

84 Pages Posted: 21 May 2020

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Brett Freudenberg

Griffith University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 21, 2020

Abstract

The way jurisdictions design their tax systems for business operations can be a contentious issue, as they try to balance the competing goals of raising sufficient tax revenue without unduly inhibiting commercial investment and activities. Such tax design can be of particular importance for small and medium enterprises, which due to their size, inherent characteristics, and resources can struggle with tax compliance. Those attributes can also make business tax regressive. A number of countries around the world have adopted business entities that utilise corporate characteristics, such as liability protection for members and separate legal entity status, but have the characteristic of tax pass-through, with members assessed directly on the income and losses of the entity. Examples include limited liability partnerships (LLPs) in the United Kingdom, look-through companies in New Zealand, and limited liability companies (LLCs) in the United States.

In some jurisdictions, these tax pass-through entities have been extremely popular, which in part has been attributed to flexibility for the members in terms of governance and the facilitation of contributions and subsequent distributions. This flexibility is arguably a desired commercial feature of business entities. However, such flexibility with contributions and distributions is seen as a potential risk to tax revenue as there is concern with artificial engineering in order to lower the overall tax burden. This has led to tax integrity measures, which by their very nature can potentially restrict flexibility.

For example, LLCs and their members are subject to greater (and potentially more complex rules) when it comes to measuring the cost basis of their membership interests; this then influences members’ ability to utilise allocated losses and the tax treatment of distributions. The flexibility of contributions and distributions for LLPs in the United Kingdom has also raised concerns with the introduction of tax integrity measures. By comparison, the United States’ older tax pass-through entity, the S Corporation, with only one class of membership interest, has fewer integrity rules governing allocations.

This Article will critically assess how the flexibility of contributions and distributions by these tax pass-through entities affects the tax rules that apply to their members. We argue that the flexibility of contributions and distributions appears to be a key characteristic demanded by business entities both for commercial and tax reasons. However, investors need to be cognitive of the inherent complexity and costs that this flexibility may entail. Additionally, it is important for governments and revenue authorities not to unduly restrict flexibility with complex tax integrity rules as it is a fine balance between commercial and revenue needs.

Keywords: partnership, allocation, distribution, contribution, capital structure, limited partnership, LLC

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Freudenberg, Brett, Contribution and Distribution Flexibility and Tax Pass-Through Entities (May 21, 2020). Florida Tax Review, Vol. 23, p. 349, 2019, Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 638, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3607138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
the LLP's insolvency. SELECT COMM. ON TRADE & INDUS, supra note 4 , p. 48 - 51
Crossref
Vanessa Finch , &amp; Judith Freedman
The Limited Liability Partnership: Pick and Mix or Mix-Up?
J. BUS. L , volume 475 , p. 508 - 517 Posted: 2002
; Freudenberg , George K , David J Yin &amp; , Shakow
Insolvency Act 1986 c. 45, § 214A (added by Limited Liability Partnerships Regulations 2001, SI 2001/1090, sched. 3). 226. Id. 227. Id. 228. Freudenberg, supra note 11. 229. For example, the defence in wrongful trading of "minimising the potential loss to the company's creditors" does
217. 223. Structuring a Business as a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), MACFARLANES , volume 1 , p. 704 - 705 Posted: 1999
See Bradley , T Borden
The Allure and Illusion of Partners' Interests in a Partnership Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,332
RANK
294,906
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies