Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Unreal Number: How Company Pension Accounting Fosters an Illusion of Certainty

Pensions Institute, 2008

86 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2020

David P. Blake

City, University of London

Zaki Khorasanee

affiliation not provided to SSRN

John Pickles

City University London

David Tyrrall

City University London - The Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

"An Unreal Number" examines pension accounting and, in particular, its effects on the results and financial position of the sponsor of a defined benefit pension plan. Current pension accounting standards are better than their predecessors because they seek to provide information about the value of a pension plan’s assets and the amounts and timing of the projected pension payments. But they reduce this useful information to a single number, which is reported as a pension surplus or deficit. This report argues that any single number is “unreal” because it cannot adequately communicate the uncertainty surrounding the ability of the assets to fund the payments.

JEL Classification: G22

Suggested Citation:

Blake, David P. and Khorasanee, Zaki and Pickles, John and Tyrrall, David, An Unreal Number: How Company Pension Accounting Fosters an Illusion of Certainty (2008). Pensions Institute, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3610689
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Accounting Standards Board
Discounting in Financial Reporting -Working paper Posted: 1997
Accounting Standards Board (1999) Statement of Principles for Financial Accounting
Accounting Standards Board
Financial Reporting Standard No. 17 Retirement Benefits Posted: 2000
Accounting Standards Board
Amendment to FRS 17 'Retirement Benefits Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
166,237
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies