Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Good Tax Governance? …Govern Tax Good!

16 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2020

Eelco van der Enden

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Bronte Klein

Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)

Date Written: May 1, 2020

Abstract

Much has been said and written about the ‘fiscal behaviour’ of multinationals. A tax code of conduct is often mentioned as a 'catch-all solution' for stimulating 'acceptable fiscal behaviour'. Stakeholders increasingly demand fiscal accountability to obtain verifiable and validated credible tax information. A tax code of conduct without a proper public reporting strategy will not build trust with stakeholders as it cannot offer the necessary guarantees that the (guiding) principles as prescribed are indeed followed. Credibility is created through accountability. Accountability can only be provided through transparency: showing how a corporate fiscal policy has translated itself into effective actions that have been monitored by the company or external auditors. A Tax code of conduct without a reporting obligation will not provide confidence to stakeholders like investors and civil society. A serious tax transparency strategy will and moreover contribute to combat 'greenwashing'. We address existing Tax Codes of Conduct, company examples and the new global tax reporting standard GRI 207: Tax 2019.

Keywords: fiscal conduct, tax behaviour, GRI, sustainability, ESG, SDG, CbCR, multinational corporations, tax planning, ethical culture, Corporate Social Responsibility, corporate governance, transparency, soft law, self-regulation, codes of conduct, tax governance, risk management, tax compliance

JEL Classification: K34, K33, H26, M41, M42, Q56, M14, L31, L21, E62, Q54, Q58,

Suggested Citation:

van der Enden, Eelco and Klein, Bronte, Good Tax Governance? …Govern Tax Good! (May 1, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3610858 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3610858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Nevertheless, the issue of public CbCr has been in a political impasse for over three years and continues to be so
However, recent developments show small openings in the discussion , volume 34 Posted: 2019-10-24
The answer seemed still to be no. Ten countries
Subsequently, the Finnish Presidency convened the Council on 28 November to see whether the positions of countries had changed
Obviously, the position of countries may change due to changed political circumstances. The new Austrian government is now for public CbCr since last December, so a qualifying majority is likely to happen
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
732
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
RANK
79,936
1 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies