Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of the Facebook Court Order & CCPA 2020: Helping Businesses and Accountants Meet the Challenge of the New Era of Privacy Compliance

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 21(2): 247-262 (2020)

16 Pages Posted: 24 Jun 2020

Patrick Ryle

Wright School of Business, Dalton State College

Brett Bueltel

University of Southern Indiana

A. Kelly Walker

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Carl Gabrini

Wright School of Business, Dalton State College

Mark McKnight

University of Southern Indiana, Romain College of Business

Date Written: June 1, 2020

Abstract

The regulatory and compliance environment regarding privacy issues has changed drastically in the past few years. With the California Consumer Privacy Act becoming effective on January 1, 2020 and the Federal Trade Commission’s imposition of a $5 billion fine on Facebook for privacy violations on July 24, 2019, companies that utilize customer data are now finding themselves reevaluating their privacy practices. This article provides businesses and accountants with solutions to address these new privacy issues. First, the paper analyzes the new legal framework of the CCPA and the FTC’s action. Next, advice is provided for businesses to comply with the CCPA and respond to consumer requests for information. The paper concludes with a practical implementation plan for businesses to adopt.

Keywords: privacy, compliance, customer data, regulation

JEL Classification: L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ryle, Patrick and Bueltel, Brett and Walker, A. Kelly and Gabrini, Carl and McKnight, Mark, The Impact of the Facebook Court Order & CCPA 2020: Helping Businesses and Accountants Meet the Challenge of the New Era of Privacy Compliance (June 1, 2020). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 21(2): 247-262 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3615422
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
William B Baker
A Big Year in Data Privacy and Security
Scitech Lawyer , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 2 - 3 Posted: 2019
C Barrett , C Barrett
Are the EU GDPR and the California CCPA Becoming the de facto Global Standards for Data Privacy and Protection
Scitech Lawyer , volume 15 , issue 3 , p. 24 - 29 Posted: 2019
California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, California Civil Code § 1798 , volume 100
Stacey English , Susannah Hammond
Cost of Compliance Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,504
RANK
241,875
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies