Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving the Accounting and Auditing of Payroll Calculations

International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 307-319.

13 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2020

Valentyna Panasyuk

Department of Accounting and Taxation, Ternopil National Economic University, Ternopil, Ukraine

Mariya Lalakulych

Department of Accounting, Uzhgorod Trade and Economic Institute of Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics, Uzhhorod, Ukraine

Erika Yuhas

Department of Accounting, Uzhgorod Trade and Economic Institute of Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics, Uzhhorod, Ukraine

Lesya Rybakova

Uzhgorod Trade and Economic Institute of Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics, Uzhhorod, Ukraine

Vitaliy Bobrivets

Department of Economic Expertise and Business Audit, Ternopil National Economic University, Ternopil, Ukraine

Date Written: June 17, 2020

Abstract

The study is devoted to the methodological foundations of accounting and audit of settlements with employees. The organization of accounting and audit of agreements with employees at Ukrainian enterprises is studied, and ways to improve the accounting of settlements with employees and cases of erroneous accounting, as well as the lack of internal audit are identified. On the example of two real enterprises, the authors demonstrated how to improve and refine: proposed to use CLN contracts, proposed a schedule of primary accounting documents, analytical sub-accounts and an audit program for payroll.

Keywords: Accounting, Auditing, CLN Contract, Payroll, Wages

Suggested Citation:

Panasyuk, Valentyna and Lalakulych, Mariya and Yuhas, Erika and Rybakova, Lesya and Bobrivets, Vitaliy, Improving the Accounting and Auditing of Payroll Calculations (June 17, 2020). International Journal of Management, 11 (5), 2020, pp. 307-319., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3629188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
H Dzwigol , M Dzwigol-Barosz , A Kwilinski
Formation of Global Competitive Enterprise Environment Based on
International Journal of Entrepreneurship , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 5 Posted: 2020
Yang Zili
Dual-rate discounting in dynamic economic-environmental modeling
Economic Modelling , volume 20 , issue 5 , p. 941 - 957 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L Nekrasenko , R Pittman , O Doroshenko , V Chumak , A Doroshenko
Grain logistics in Ukraine: the main challenges and effective ways to reach sustainability
Economic Annals-XXI , issue 8 , p. 70 - 83 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Lilia Rejeb , Zahia Guessoum
Firms Adaptation in Dynamic Economic Systems Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
308
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,280
RANK
225,151
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies