Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pinch-Hitting for the IRS: Second Circuit Adopts Phantom Regulations to Curb a Monster Abuse of Financial Derivatives

4 Business, Entrepreneurship & Tax Law Review 26 (2020).

33 Pages Posted: 30 Jun 2020

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: April 1, 2020

Abstract

In Estate of McKelvey v. Commissioner, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals adopted the IRS’s position that probability analysis should be employed to deter-mine that the taxpayer’s particular performance under the terms of a financial instrument was “virtually certain.” However, the IRS had steadfastly refused to promulgate regulations that, under a statutory delegation of authority to issue regulations to interpret and enforce the statute, could have administratively imposed that out-come.

Instead, by employing what are commonly referred to as “phantom regulations,” the Second Circuit judicially mandated that result. The Panel’s decision effectively bypassed application of the Administrative Procedure Act’s notice and comment requirements. More significantly, it permitted the IRS to avoid its responsibility to issue regulations and, thereby, deprived the public, and the taxpayer, of the expertise and professionalism of the IRS rulemaking process.

Keywords: IRS, regulations, phantom regulations, APA, derivatives, administrative law

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., Pinch-Hitting for the IRS: Second Circuit Adopts Phantom Regulations to Curb a Monster Abuse of Financial Derivatives (April 1, 2020). 4 Business, Entrepreneurship & Tax Law Review 26 (2020). , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3633298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
Gall
See also Substance Over Form?, supra note 20
Substance Over Form?, supra note 20, at 60 (emphasis added); see also Gall, supra note ***, at 447 ("Consequently, the application of phantom regulations may be thwarting, not furthering, congressional intent
See supra note 40 and accompanying text
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,012
RANK
490,153
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies