Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Setting Servicemembers Up for More Success: Building and Transferring Wealth in a Challenging Economic Environment — A Tax and Estate Planning Analysis

The Army Lawyer, 2010

43 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2020

Samuel Kan

Barry University - Dwayne O. Andreas School of Law

Date Written: January 1, 2010

Abstract

In times of increasing financial uncertainty, servicemembers must consider the extent of their financial planning. Current economic conditions have transformed the way people plan for themselves and their families. While, prior to the financial crisis that began in 2007 the average American considered financial planning in terms of building wealth, modern times have forced Americans to focus on providing for their own subsistence and maintaining enough resources to outlast the next financial crisis. This article is the second installment of a 2006 military financial planning resource. While the first article addressed planning considerations for the average military member considering the purchase of a home, this article considers the unique issues facing servicemembers who have substantial assets, who want to provide for non-citizen dependents, and who desire to make unusual conveyances in their wills. These issues are addressed in a manner that is sensitive to the unique challenges of the contemporary financial operating environment.

To avoid financial ruin in times of increased financial risk, all servicemembers should have a process in place for evaluating their current and future needs, including the period after their death. At the simplest level, prudent financial planning is encapsulated in a four-step process. First, servicemembers should understand that estate planning is appropriate for almost everyone. Therefore, they should pursue legal measures, such as preparing a will and power of attorney. Second, servicemembers should become familiar with the tax system so that they can make informed tax decisions and minimize the negative consequences of uninformed legal and financial choices. Third, servicemembers should build and hold assets in a calculated manner to build wealth while accounting for risk. Fourth, servicemembers should make appropriate arrangements during life and at death to ensure that their designated beneficiaries reap the maximum rewards of their lifetime efforts. While most servicemembers will not have to complete the full four-step analysis servicemembers should become familiar with broader tax concepts so that they can accomplish their lifelong objectives and minimize negative tax and estate planning consequences.

Keywords: military, estate planning, tax

Suggested Citation:

Kan, Samuel, Setting Servicemembers Up for More Success: Building and Transferring Wealth in a Challenging Economic Environment — A Tax and Estate Planning Analysis (January 1, 2010). The Army Lawyer, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3635425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
94 References
Cch See , Cch Tax , Briefing
Estate Tax Extension Passes House, Fails in Senate; Carryover Basis Effective
Federal Estate Tax (H.R. 4154) Posted: 2010-01-01
federal estate tax rate of 45 percent with a $3.5 million exclusion. . . . [However,] the bill failed to win support in the Senate, as did a temporary stop-gap measure to extend the 2009 estate tax regime through Posted: 2010-01-29
U S See , Master , Gift , Guide
A gift made during the donor's lifetime and delivered with the intention of irrevocably surrendering control over the property
BLACKS LAW DICTIONARY , volume 353 Posted: 2009
I R C See , Richard B Stephens , Al
2501 to 2524 (covering all applicable code sections of the federal gift tax). See generally
FEDERAL ESTATE & GIFT TAXATION , volume 9 , issue 5
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
605
94 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Estate Planning eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies