Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recommendations from SEC’s Plain English Handbook: Perspectives from Behavioural Research

Accountancy, Business and the Public Interest, May 2019, Vol 18: 66-80

16 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2020

Clarence Goh

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The SEC published the plain English handbook in 1998 with the objective of providing preparers of financial disclosures with a guide to using well-established techniques to create clearer and more informative disclosure documents. The handbook provides various recommendations to preparers of disclosure documents. In this study, I examine and systematically synthesize the extent behavioural research literature that investigates the impact of implementing these recommendations on investors. I do so by developing a framework to systematically examine relevant studies. Overall, the analysis provides important insights from a behavioural perspective into how and why investors react to various recommendations in the SEC’s plain English handbook. My study provides insights to investors, and other stakeholders about how/why key recommendations in the handbook can influence investor judgments. It also provides regulators with insights into how recommendations contained in the handbook are consistent with its stated objective of making disclosures more accessible and easily understandable.

Suggested Citation:

Goh, Clarence, Recommendations from SEC’s Plain English Handbook: Perspectives from Behavioural Research (2019). Accountancy, Business and the Public Interest, May 2019, Vol 18: 66-80, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3642028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
H S Asay , R Libby , Rennekamp K
Firm performance, reporting goals, and language in narrative disclosures'. Working paper Posted: 2017
Crossref
V Beattie , M Jones
Measurement distortion of graphs in corporate reports: An experimental study
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , p. 546 - 564 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J G Birnberg
A proposed framework for behavioral accounting research
Behavioral Research in Accounting , volume 23 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2011
Crossref
W J Clinton
Presidential memorandum on plain language in government writing Posted: 1998
Load more
1 Citations
Nicole L. Cade , Molly Mercer , Amanda Winn
When and How Do Advertisements Affect Investors’ Processing of Online Financial Information?
43 Pages · Posted: 22 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 204
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,286
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies