Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditors and Materiality

Chong, H.G. (1992) "Auditors and materiality" Managerial Auditing Journal, 7(5), September, 8-17 (ISSN 0268-6902)

10 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2020 Last revised: 21 Mar 2021

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: July 4, 2020

Abstract


There are many definitions of materiality and such differences in definitions show that there is great concern about the applicability of materiality in the auditing profession. Various materiality guidelines have been recommended by both academic researchers and accounting bodies, but the Auditing Practises Board in the U.K. has yet to recommend a guideline of its own. Looks at the recommendations put forward by those researchers and accounting bodies and the implications and possible pros and cons of having structured guidelines by the auditing profession in the U.K. Concludes with a recommended materiality guideline which the Auditing Practises Board should seriously consider and the possibility of applying computer-based decision aids as a tool to improve efficiency and effectiveness of decision making by auditors.

Keywords: Auditing profession, auditors, materiality

JEL Classification: M1, M4, M42

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Auditors and Materiality (July 4, 2020). Chong, H.G. (1992) "Auditors and materiality" Managerial Auditing Journal, 7(5), September, 8-17 (ISSN 0268-6902) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3643596 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3643596
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,037
RANK
653,956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies