Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New York's Ill-Advised Taxation of Nonresidents During COVID-19

TAX NOTES 1001 (May 25, 2020)

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 614

6 Pages Posted: 9 Jul 2020

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: July 7, 2020

Abstract

For 2020, New York should tax neither the incomes of nonresident telecommuters nor the incomes of the volunteers who came from across the country to help New York confront the COVID-19 emergency.If New York will not act in this sensible fashion, Congress should. In the next round of coronavirus legislation, Congress can prohibit the states from taxing, for the duration of the coronavirus emergency, the incomes of nonresident telecommuters and out-of-state medical volunteers.

Keywords: COVID-10, New York income taxation, “convenience of the employer” telecommuters, nonresidents, volunteers, Due Process, dormant Commerce Clause

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., New York's Ill-Advised Taxation of Nonresidents During COVID-19 (July 7, 2020). TAX NOTES 1001 (May 25, 2020), Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 614, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3645332
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
943
RANK
649,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies