Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Antipathy Toward Business Loss Deductions is Misguided

167 Tax Notes Federal 1863, 2020

8 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2020

Steven Z. Hodaszy

Robert Morris University

Date Written: June 15, 2020

Abstract

In 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act added — in section 461(l) — a new limitation on an individual business owner’s ability to deduct business losses against non-business income for tax years beginning between 2018 and 2025. In March 2020, Congress temporarily suspended the operation of section 461(l) as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Almost immediately thereafter, there began a push—by commentators in the press and academia, and by some members of Congress — to reinstate section 461(l) and to make the rule permanent. Now, the proposed reinstatement of the rule is part of the Health and Economic Recovery Omnibus Emergency Solutions (HEROES) Act, which passed the House in May 2020. This article explains why the reinstatement of section 461(l) would be a mistake and why the provision should instead be repealed for good.

Keywords: Excess Business Loss, 461(l), CARES Act, HEROES Act, Pass-Through Entities

Suggested Citation:

Hodaszy, Steven Z., Why the Antipathy Toward Business Loss Deductions is Misguided (June 15, 2020). 167 Tax Notes Federal 1863, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3650288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
741,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies