Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax MACs: A Study of M&A Termination Rights Triggered by Material Adverse Changes in Tax Law

The Tax Lawyer, vol. 73, no. 4 (Summer 2020), pp. 823-859 (published by the ABA Section of Taxation)

UC Hastings Research Paper Forthcoming

38 Pages Posted: 29 Aug 2020

Heather M. Field

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: July 20, 2020

Abstract

A “Tax MAC” provision—one that triggers termination or other rights upon a material adverse change in tax law—can be crucial to a business deal if a change in tax law would change a party’s interest in consummating the deal, particularly at the specified price and on the articulated terms. Tax MAC provisions may be particularly important when taxpayers make business decisions in a political climate like today’s, when tax laws could change again, perhaps dramatically, if control of Congress and the White House changes. Yet little has been written about Tax MAC provisions. In response, I studied Tax MAC provisions included in publicly filed M&A agreements from the past five years, focusing on provisions that could trigger termination of the deal if tax laws change adversely. This Article details the findings of that study. Specifically, this Article identifies the key elements of these Tax MAC provisions (e.g., which changes constitute a “change in tax law” for purposes of these provisions, what procedures are used to determine whether the specified material adverse tax law change has occurred, what consequences arise if such a change has occurred, and how the provisions overlap with any provision requiring a general tax opinion in the transaction), and explains the range of approaches taken on each element. This Article’s analysis of the deal points of Tax MAC provisions can inform the drafting and negotiation of a wide variety of (even non-M&A-related) contractual provisions that would alter the price, terms, or obligation to continue a transaction if tax laws change. Thus, this Article should be instructive for lawyers seeking to help clients proceed with desirable transactions that might otherwise be stymied by uncertainty about possible future tax reforms. More generally, this Article provides insights both into how contractual provisions are, and can be, used to manage deal risk posed by the possibility of future tax law reforms and into deal-making practices when tax laws may change.

Keywords: tax, tax law, tax transitions, legal transitions, material adverse change, change in tax law, tax transition risk, risk allocation, M&A agreements

JEL Classification: K34, K22

Suggested Citation:

Field, Heather M., Tax MACs: A Study of M&A Termination Rights Triggered by Material Adverse Changes in Tax Law (July 20, 2020). The Tax Lawyer, vol. 73, no. 4 (Summer 2020), pp. 823-859 (published by the ABA Section of Taxation), UC Hastings Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3657951
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Current Report (Form 8-K), Item 1 Posted: 2016-07-05
Njrc See , Current
Posted: 2015-01-26
Crossref
Arctic Jersey Limited, Arctic Corp
Amcor/Bemis Agreement-Transaction Agreement by and among Amcor Limited Posted: 2018-08-06
J Monty , Remington Bennett , G P Holdings , Mark A Llc , Remington Sharkey , Holdings , Lp , Inc Ashford
Ashford GP Holdings I, LLC, and Remington GP Holdings, LLC (dated as of Sept , volume 17 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
487,221
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies