Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
   
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax and Cross-Collateralized Nonrecourse Liability

24 Florida Tax Review __ (2021)

U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper Forthcoming

FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 928

FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 20-15

20 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2020

Douglas A. Kahn

University of Michigan Law School

Jeffrey H. Kahn

Harry M. Walborsky Professor, Florida State University College of Law; Associate Dean, Business Program

Date Written: August 2020

Abstract

This article explores the tax treatment of cross-collateral nonrecourse debt. When using the term cross-collateral debt, we are referring to nonrecourse debt that is connected with more than one piece of property. While tax issues concerning cross-collateralized properties can arise in several circumstances, the focus of this article is on the tax treatment of a transfer of property subject to a cross-collateralized nonrecourse liability to a controlled corporation in exchange for stock that qualifies for some or all nonrecognition under § 351. The article also discusses two other tax issues involving cross-collateralized nonrecourse liability – namely, cancellation of debt and determination of basis issues.

Keywords: Taxation, Cross-Collateral, Nonrecourse, Debt, Liability, Basis

JEL Classification: H20, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kahn, Douglas A. and Kahn, Jeffrey H., Tax and Cross-Collateralized Nonrecourse Liability (August 2020). 24 Florida Tax Review __ (2021), U of Michigan Public Law Research Paper Forthcoming, FSU College of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 928, FSU College of Law, Law, Business & Economics Paper No. 20-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3666312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,047
RANK
508,508
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies