Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
BEPS Primer: Past, Present, And Future, Part 1

Tax Notes International, July 6, 2020

26 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2020

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: July 6, 2020

Abstract

This is a mid-2020 Update of my 2016 BEPS Primer article. This 2020 Update is in two parts. Part 1 focuses on the initial two-year BEPS project and developments concerning it since the release of the October 5, 2015 Final Reports. Part 2 focuses on Pillars One and Two of the currently ongoing BEPS 2.0 OECD-led process.

Governments throughout the world have been losing many billions of dollars of tax revenues over the past two decades from tax avoidance conducted by many multinational groups (MNEs). These MNEs have aggressively structured their operations and transactions in manners that often lack economic reality so as to divorce their profits from the activities that earn those profits, thereby recording excessive profits in group members that are subjected to zero or low-taxation. The success of this tax avoidance motivated the G-20 and the OECD to begin the initial two-year Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) OECD-led project, which took place from 2013 to 2015.

Following the initial two-year project were several years of continued developments with an acceleration of activity beginning in 2019, which has been termed BEPS 2.0. This BEPS 2.0 project is described in some detail with editorial thoughts on its potential effects and how it may proceed. BEPS 2.0 includes two “Pillars”, the first of which would provide for limited taxation by market countries and the second of which would create a minimum tax to discourage profit shifting.

This discussion of the BEPS project is intended to give the reader an understanding of the project’s origin, its objectives, and how it may proceed in the future. It does not provide details of the specific results of the work on the initial project’s 15 Action Plan items. Rather, only some brief comments are made on them to give the reader a flavor of the BEPS work undertaken by the OECD and the others who participated in this project. It is more detailed regarding the currently on-going BEPS 2.0 Pillars One and Two.

More specifically, the Primer includes:

— Examples of MNE BEPS activities,

— Description of how the environment strongly motivates BEPS behavior including both systemic issues and developments occurring over past decades,

— Participants in the BEPS process,

— Brief comments on the initial BEPS Project 15 Action Plan Items,

— Results of the initial BEPS Project and possible future developments, and

— Description, comments, and editorial reflections on both Pillars One and Two of BEPS 2.0.

Keywords: BEPS, base erosion, profit shifting, international taxation, MNE, MNC, OECD, G20, BEPS 2.0, Pillar One, Pillar 1, Pillar Two, Pillar 2

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., BEPS Primer: Past, Present, And Future, Part 1 (July 6, 2020). Tax Notes International, July 6, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3669899
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,778
RANK
122,537
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies