Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship Between Informality and the Formal Management Accounting and Control Process: A Case Study From Egypt

Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Volume 24, Issue 4, 2020

13 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2020

Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab

Beni Suef University; Prince Sultan University

Date Written: August 14, 2020

Abstract

This work sets out to integrate informal institutions' role into the formal management accounting and control (MAC) process by bringing qualitative evidence from a developing African setting. Using institutional analysis, we sought to identify how informal institutions relate to and affect corporate accounting and controls. A case study approach is used, focusing on the field of oil production in Egypt. Data are collected through a triangulation of interviews, observations, and documents. Despite the present conflicting goals between formal and informal institutions and the limited role played by formal institutions in the process of MAC in the Egyptian context, formal and informal institutions are observed to be accommodating (rather than substituting or competing with) each other. This relationship has eventually played a supportive role in the process of MAC in this emerging market. This work contributes to the literature by highlighting the interplay between formal and informal institutions in an emerging African context and providing theoretical and empirical evidence on the interaction between formal and informal institutions in accounting and control.

Keywords: Management Accounting and Control, Formal Institutions, Informality, Oil Industry, Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Diab, Ahmed Abdelnaby, The Relationship Between Informality and the Formal Management Accounting and Control Process: A Case Study From Egypt (August 14, 2020). Academy of Accounting and Financial Studies Journal, Volume 24, Issue 4, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3674028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J R Azari , J K Smith
Unwritten rules: Informal institutions in established democracies
Perspectives on Politics , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 37 - 55 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J H Bae , R Salomon
Institutional distance in international business research. Advances in international management , volume 23 , p. 327 - 349 Posted: 2010
S Burchell , C Clubb , A Hopwood , J Hughes , J Nahapiet
The roles of accounting in organizations and society', Accounting, organizations and society , volume 5 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 1980
Crossref
M C Casson , M Della Giusta , U S Kambhampati
Formal and informal institutions and development
World Development , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 141 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
840
RANK
478,514
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies