Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ethical Considerations of Corporate Tax Avoidance: Diverging Perspectives From Different Stakeholders

In The Routledge Handbook of Accounting Ethics, 2020

19 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2020 Last revised: 16 Sep 2020

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Christina Lewellen

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 11, 2020

Abstract

The ethicality of corporate tax avoidance is an important concern to many stakeholders, including corporate affiliates (e.g., managers, shareholders, employees), politicians, the public, academics, and practitioners. This chapter provides a theoretical examination of the ethicality of corporate tax avoidance from the perspectives of different groups of corporate stakeholders. We also review findings from empirical academic literature providing evidence on various stakeholders’ perceptions of corporate tax avoidance. Our review does not provide clear insights that tax avoidance on the part of corporations is inherently unethical; instead, we glean that the ethicality of corporate tax avoidance is a complex issue where, despite the decrease in aggregate tax revenues, many direct and indirect stakeholders may actually benefit as a result of corporate tax avoidance.

Keywords: tax avoidance, ethics

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Lewellen, Christina, Ethical Considerations of Corporate Tax Avoidance: Diverging Perspectives From Different Stakeholders (June 11, 2020). In The Routledge Handbook of Accounting Ethics, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3675591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Alberto Alesina , Silvia Ardagna
Large Changes in Fiscal Policy: Taxes versus Spending
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 68 Posted: 2010
Crossref
T J Atwood , Christina Lewellen
The Complementarity between Tax Avoidance and Manager Diversion: Evidence from Tax Haven Firms
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 259 - 94 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Chelsea Austin , Ryan J Rae , Wilson
An Examination of Reputational Costs and Tax Avoidance: Evidence from Firms with Valuable Consumer Brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Philippa Back
Avoiding Tax May Be Legal, but Can It Ever Be Ethical
The Guardian Posted: 2013-04-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,407
RANK
349,147
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies