Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Removal of Directors by the Board of Directors under the Companies Act 71 of 2008: Should it be a Mandatory or an Alterable Provision?

(2019) 52(3) The Comparative and International Law Journal of Southern Africa 389

21 Pages Posted: 13 Oct 2020

Rehana Cassim

University of South Africa

Date Written: 2019

Abstract

The Companies Act 71 of 2008 introduced into South African law a provision which for the first time permits the board of directors to remove another director from office in certain instances. This provision is contained in section 71(3). Compared to the equivalent provision in some leading foreign jurisdictions, section 71(3) of the Companies Act is unique in two important respects. First, the board’s power to remove board members is an unalterable and a mandatory power. Second, a board’s removal rights do not follow appointment rights. Consequently, a board is empowered to remove from office any director, regardless of whether shareholders or any other person had appointed that director to office. This article questions whether the board’s power to remove directors from office under the Companies Act ought, instead, to be an alterable power. With a view to protecting the minority shareholder representatives on the board of directors, it questions whether section 71(3) should distinguish between directors appointed by a board and directors elected by shareholders. The comparable provisions on the removal of directors by a board of directors in corporate legislation in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America are examined. Some recommendations are made to modify section 71(3) of the Companies Act to improve the new power conferred on boards of directors to remove fellow board members.


Keywords: Removal of Directors, Mandatory Powers, Alterable Powers, Companies Act 71 of 2008

JEL Classification: K22

Suggested Citation:

Cassim, Rehana, The Removal of Directors by the Board of Directors under the Companies Act 71 of 2008: Should it be a Mandatory or an Alterable Provision? (2019). (2019) 52(3) The Comparative and International Law Journal of Southern Africa 389, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678754
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies