Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Section 267a and the Taxation of Hybrid Mismatches Under the Code

The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 74, No. 2, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2020

Shay Shimon Moyal

University of Michigan at Ann Arbor - Law School - Doctor of the Science of Law (SJD)

Date Written: September 10, 2020

Abstract

Hybrid mismatches are differences in tax rules between countries. It has been one of the main tools for multinationals to minimize their tax liabilities. As such, it has been a subject of concern for many legislators, international tax scholarship, and countries worldwide and evoked intriguing intellectual discussions on their legitimacy and how to address them. Indeed, this issue encompasses many complex issues, including the differences between accounting for the legal and economic situations of taxpayers, corporate and individual taxpayers, international tax and international law, distinguishing different types of income and more. These considerations are taken into account to address the conflict between the jurisdictions’ freedom to tax their subjects as they wish and their fight against base erosion and tax competition to ensure their ability to redistribute wealth in their societies. The recently enacted hybrid rules were designed to disallow deductions from payments of interest, royalties, and dividends by or from foreign related parties if such related parties are not already taxed for these payments. The legislative intent, structure of these sections, and the similarities between the first OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting show that these sections are international customary law. As such, this paper seeks to analyze and improve the current law by leaning on international tax principles and recent international tax trends, and argues that a BEAT-like minimum tax approach to these hybrid payments would apply the international tax principles substantially and coherently better as it prevents double non-taxation as well as de-minimis taxation and over taxation. In addition, this approach may reduce the complexity of the current law.

Keywords: Hybrid Transactions; International Tax; Base Erosion

Suggested Citation:

Moyal, Shay Shimon, Section 267a and the Taxation of Hybrid Mismatches Under the Code (September 10, 2020). The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 74, No. 2, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3690149 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3690149
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
245A(e) apply to dividends, royalties, and interest, whereas BEAT applies to other suspected base-eroding deductions
267A 107 and 245A(e). 108 Second, Sections 267A and
A &quot;25% Owner
is a person that owns 25% of the total voting power of all classes of stock of a corporation entitled to vote or 25% of the total value of all classes of the corporation's stock. Constructive ownership rules will apply and will include even 10% shareholders as opposed to only 50% shareholders. In addition, related parties under the BEAT includes and any other person related under I.R.C. § 482
Base Erosion Payments" under I.R.C § 59A(d) that includes (i) payments for which a deduction is allowable; (ii) payments made in connection with the acquisition from the foreign related party of depreciable or amortizable property; (iii) premiums or other consideration paid for insurance, and (iv) certain payments with respect to a surrogate foreign corporation or its expanded affiliated group that
See E G David , P Hariton
The Heart of the BEAT, TAX NOTES Posted: 2019-04-29
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
490,153
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies