Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Planning: A Case Study of Tax Saving Instruments in Pakistan (Under Income Tax Ordinance 2001)

24 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2020

Fatima Tariq

Kinnaird College for Women; University of the Punjab (PU)

Date Written: December 22, 2018

Abstract

The word “Tax” is derived from the Latin word called Taxove and Taxo means to value or estimate. The term income tax implies that it is a tax levied on personal earnings. Tax planning is the technique of forecasting the tax liability and reducing it to the minimum. Income Tax planning, therefore, is considered as an organization of financial matters of someone in such a way that no legal procedures or laws violated, the full benefit is taken from all tax exemptions, deductions, allowances, tax credits and other reliefs and gains allowed under the Ordinance. In this way, the tax liability of the assessee is, as far as possible, reduced. Overall findings reveal that Income Tax Ordinance, 2001 allows the different tax saving instruments like, zakat, health insurance, investment in shares and medical allowances which can be employed to effectively reduce the tax liabilities.

Keywords: Income Tax, Tax Planning, Tax Liabilities, Exemptions, Reductions, Tax Credit, Tax Evasion, Income Tax Ordinance 2001, Finance Act

Suggested Citation:

Tariq, Fatima, Income Tax Planning: A Case Study of Tax Saving Instruments in Pakistan (Under Income Tax Ordinance 2001) (December 22, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3697190 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3697190
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
| Secp
Posted: 2018-11-22
Fbr
Quick Links
F Inpapermagazine
Paying into Workers' Welfare Fund Posted: 2013-04-15
Nni
Govt fixes Zakat Nisab at Rs 39,198 Posted: 2018-05-16
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
634
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,228
RANK
96,129
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies