Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Simultaneous Equations: The Statute Strikes Back

21 Tax Notes 2211

9 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: September 21, 2020

Abstract

The tax code limits some deductions to a fixed percentage of the taxpayer’s taxable income, such as for business interest deductions, net operating losses (NOL), foreign derived intangible income (FDII), global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), charitable contributions, and so on. When multiple income-based limitations apply to a taxpayer at the same time, without specified ordering rules, the IRS has historically solved simultaneous equations to give proper effect to all the limitations.

Some commentators have stated that the simultaneous application of multiple income-based tax limitations would result in a “circular” or “infinite” number of steps, with presumably no definite solution. A comparable comment was made around the fifth century B.C. by Zeno of Elea, who claimed that “that which is in locomotion must arrive at the half-way stage before it arrives at the goal,” such that it was impossible to complete the infinite number of steps of crossing increasingly smaller distances. Similar to how Diogenes supposedly disproved Zeno’s paradox by getting up and walking across the room, some practical simultaneous equation solutions are provided in the article.

The article is a sequel to "Simultaneous Equations for Simpler Tax Analysis" published a year earlier in Tax Notes.

Keywords: NOL, GILTI, FDII, 163(j), simultaneous equations, charitable contributions, tax simplification

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Simultaneous Equations: The Statute Strikes Back (September 21, 2020). 21 Tax Notes 2211, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3700428
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
271
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
257,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies