Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Higher Education Spending and CPA Exam Performance

22 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2020

Adriana S. Cordis

Winthrop University - College of Business Administration

Steven Muzatko

Arkansas State University

Date Written: July 20, 2020

Abstract

We examine the relationship between state and local spending per capita on higher education and the performance of Certified Public Accountant (CPA) examination candidates. State and local governments play an important role in providing access to higher education at public colleges and universities. Because these government bodies face difficult choices in addressing many competing needs, there is substantial variability in the level of spending on higher education per capita across states. This state-level variation presumably leads to differences in the quality of education. We find evidence to support this view. Specifically, we find that the level of spending on higher education per capita has a positive marginal effect on the CPA exam pass rate for public universities. In contrast, the level of spending on higher education per capita has no effect on the CPA exam pass rates for private universities.

Keywords: CPA exam, Higher education spending, AACSB accreditation

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Cordis, Adriana S. and Muzatko, Steven, Higher Education Spending and CPA Exam Performance (July 20, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3701060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3701060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
198
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
RANK
350,748
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies