Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Fraud and the Failure of Corporate Financial Statement Fraud Prediction

14 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2020 Last revised: 6 Dec 2021

Wm. Dennis Huber

Barry University

James A. DiGabriele

Montclair State University

Date Written: October 11, 2020

Abstract

There have been many advances in the accounting literature that focus on theories and methods for detecting the occurrence of corporate financial statement fraud. Many tools have been developed to detect the occurrence of corporate financial statement fraud, particularly using various computer-assisted auditing tools including artificial intelligence. However, there is also within the accounting literature a stream of research that focuses on theories and models attempting to predict the occurrence of corporate financial statement fraud. This paper examines those theories and models and explains why those theories and models fail to predict the occurrence of corporate financial statement fraud.
This is the working paper version. The published version is at the Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 21 No. 4, (2021). DOI: https://doi.org/10.33423/jaf.v21i4.4523.

Keywords: fraud, fraud prediction, fraud models

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42,M49

Suggested Citation:

Huber, Wm. Dennis and DiGabriele, James A., Financial Statement Fraud and the Failure of Corporate Financial Statement Fraud Prediction (October 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3709502 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3709502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Acfe
Analytics in compliance: Using predictive analytics to proactively identify compliance risks in transactions Posted: 2016
Aicpa
Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit
Statement on Auditing Standards No. 99 Posted: 2002
Fraud and forensics classroom materials
AICPA
C C Albrecht
Fraud and forensic accounting in a digital environment
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,339
RANK
159,889
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies