Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Is an Investment Loss Deductible? Adkins v. United States Provides Taxpayer-Friendly Guidance,

Journal of Taxation of Investments, Fall 2020, at 83

Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-18

11 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2020 Last revised: 21 Apr 2025

Erik M. Jensen

Case Western Reserve University School of Law

Date Written: January 01, 2020

Abstract

In May 2020, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit decided an important case, Adkins v. United States, dealing with the timing of a deduction for investment losses (in this case attributable to a pump-and-dump scheme, and it did so in a taxpayer-friendly way. In general, a taxpayer may not deduct a loss if a “reasonable prospect of recovery” exists. The Federal Circuit rejected conclusions of the Court of Federal Claims that a loss is not currently deductible if it is “unknowable” whether such a reasonable prospect exists and that, to be eligible for a deduction, a taxpayer must first pursue all possible means of recovery, regardless of the costs involved in doing so and regardless of the likelihood of success. A prospect of recovery isn’t necessarily a reasonable prospect of recovery.

Keywords: Adkins v. U.S., reasonable prospect of recovery, unknowability, deductibility of losses from pump-and-dump schemes

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Jensen, Erik M., When Is an Investment Loss Deductible? Adkins v. United States Provides Taxpayer-Friendly Guidance, (January 01, 2020). Journal of Taxation of Investments, Fall 2020, at 83 , Case Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2020-18, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3715835
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
458
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Case Research Paper Series in Legal Studies

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies