Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Diagnosing the VAT Compliance Burden: A Cross-Country Assessment

59 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Richard Highfield

UNSW Sydney

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Binh Tran-Nam

University of New South Wales (UNSW) - School of Accounting, Auditing and Taxation

Michael Walpole

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting Auditing and Taxation & ATAX; OCBT

Date Written: October 21, 2019

Abstract

This report sets out the findings of an extended study designed to test a diagnostic tool that has been developed for use in comparative cross-country assessments of the VAT compliance burden and its main drivers. It is based on data gathered from surveys conducted in the 47 member countries of the Forum on Tax Administration (FTA) that administer a Value Added Tax (VAT) or Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime.

Keywords: taxation, Forum on Tax Administration, Value Added Tax, Goods and Services Tax

Suggested Citation:

Highfield, Richard and Evans, Christopher Charles and Tran-Nam, Binh and Walpole, Michael, Diagnosing the VAT Compliance Burden: A Cross-Country Assessment (October 21, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3726376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3726376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Year VAT commenced 2017 GDP per capita (PPP$)
Costa Rica
, volume 17 Posted: 1982
Greece , volume 776 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Country Year VAT commenced 2017 GDP per capita (PPP$)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
988
RANK
429,779
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies