Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Causes and Consequences of Corruption in Tax Administration: An Indonesian Case Study

eJournal of Tax Research Vol 15, No 2, pp. 243-261, 2017

21 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

christine tjen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 2017

Abstract

This article uses an Indonesian case study (the Gayus case) to explore critical issues in the relationship between tax and corruption. More particularly, it considers the causes and impact of corruption at tax administrative levels in Indonesia, and identifies and evaluates strategies the Indonesian revenue authority (the Directorate General of Taxation, or DGT) has adopted, or can adopt, to ensure opportunities for such corrupt activity are mitigated or eliminated. The article adopts a qualitative approach, utilising archival analysis supplemented by interviews and correspondence with key parties involved. After a broad introduction which outlines the nature, types and impact of corruption in revenue authorities, the article identifies the principles that typically underpin anti-corruption strategies in revenue authorities in developing countries, together with examples of some of the anti-corruption strategies employed. It then considers the nature of the corrupt activity exemplified by the Gayus case in Indonesia, how it arose, and how it came to light. This is followed by a consideration of the impact upon the organisation, how the DGT dealt with it and what changes came about as a result in terms of anticorruption strategies subsequently adopted and now operating in the DGT. The article concludes with a section on the lessons learned and prospects for the future, both in Indonesia and elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region.

Keywords: tax, tax administration, corruption, compliance

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and tjen, christine, Causes and Consequences of Corruption in Tax Administration: An Indonesian Case Study (December 2017). eJournal of Tax Research Vol 15, No 2, pp. 243-261, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727092
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Chibuike Uche , Onuora Ugwoke
The Law and Practice of Value Added Tax in Nigeria Posted: 2003
Bulletin for International Taxation 265
David Child
Key Steps to Address Corruption in Tax and Customs' (U4 Brief No. 15, Chr. Michelsen Institute Posted: 2008-05
Bird Bahl
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
721
RANK
592,728
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Islamic Law & Law of the Muslim World eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies