Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Gains Tax – The Unprincipled Tax?

British Tax Review No 5 (1999), pp 387-405

22 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Cedric Sandford

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 1, 1999

Abstract

Last year's Budget presented by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, on March 17, 1998, proposed radical changes to the way the capital gains of individuals and trusts are to be taxed in the United Kingdom. These changes--and in particular the abolition of indexation for assets acquired after April 5, 1998, and the introduction of the preferential treatment of long term gains by the introduction of a tapering relief--reflect certain trends in capital gains tax ("CGT") regimes in some other parts of the world. But to a greater extent they highlight inconsistencies and contradictions, both within and between countries, in the manner in which capital gains are treated. Most countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") have CGT regimes in place, and yet it is difficult to establish any coherent set of principles that are common to all, or even most countries. More than any other tax, CGT appears to be a tax without principle. This is surprising in a tax that has been around in one form or another for most of the twentieth century.

The purpose of this paper is to examine the hypothesis that CGT is an unprincipled tax, and to explore the very different approaches to the taxation of capital gains that exist. It will do this by examining the way in which six English-speaking countries (the United Kingdom, Ireland, the U.S.A., Canada, New Zealand and Australia) have taxed capital gains (or, in the case of New Zealand, not formally taxed them). In Part Two a potted history of CGT in each of the six countries is used to show the contradictions within these countries and between them. This leads to an examination of the various differences that exist by reference to three major structural considerations--the tax base, the rate of tax and the degree to which preferences of various sorts are introduced. Finally, in Part Two, the inconsistencies are highlighted by way of a series of simple CGT calculations based on a common tax scenario in each of the six countries which show widely differing tax outcomes. Part Three seeks to explore the reasons for the inconsistent approaches that have been adopted and the internal contradictions that have occurred, whilst Part Four identifies a number of forces that may be at work to bring about a convergence of capital gains taxation over the longer term. In Part Five the authors offer some brief--and very tentative--thoughts on their approach to a more principled CGT.

This material was first published by Sweet and Maxwell Limited in the British Tax Review and is reproduced by agreement with the Publishers.


Note: “This material was first published by Thomson Reuters, trading as Sweet & Maxwell, 5 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AQ, in the British Tax Review as Capital Gains Tax – The Unprincipled Tax? [1999] BTR No. 5 and is reproduced by agreement with the publishers”.

Keywords: capital gains tax, tax base, tax policy, taxation

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Sandford, Cedric, Capital Gains Tax – The Unprincipled Tax? (October 1, 1999). British Tax Review No 5 (1999), pp 387-405, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727761
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
265
ABSTRACT VIEWS
995
RANK
263,504
2 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies