Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Capital Gains: One Step Forwards or Two Steps Back?

Journal of Australian Taxation Vol 5 No 1, pp 114-135, 2002

22 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2002

Abstract

The manner in which capital gains are taxed in Australia (and in other countries) has undergone fundamental reform in recent years. A "new" Capital Gains Tax ("CGT") regime based on the identification of (currently) 39 CGT events was legislated in Australia with effect from 1 July 1998. In addition, a 50% CGT discount has been introduced for certain taxpayers from 21 September 1999. At the same time averaging has been abolished, indexation has been frozen, and small business CGT concessions have been made significantly more generous. This article evaluates these recent CGT changes from a policy perspective. It draws upon revenue and other available statistics to identify the impact of the changes upon the capacity for revenue generation/protection and for the operating costs of the CGT system, and concludes that the recent changes do not deliver the benefits that have been claimed and anticipated. Efficiency arguments dominate, with some lip-service paid to the simplicity criterion (usually manifested by vague assertions about reducing compliance costs for taxpayers and administrative costs for the revenue authority). The integrity of the tax system, and in particular notions of equity and perceived equity, may suffer, and the supposed efficiency and simplicity gains may not materialise.

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Taxing Capital Gains: One Step Forwards or Two Steps Back? (2002). Journal of Australian Taxation Vol 5 No 1, pp 114-135, 2002, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3727737
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Christopher Charles Evans
Taxing Personal Capital Gains in Australia: Causes of Complexity and Proposals for Reform
Australian Tax Forum, Vol 19 No 3, pp 371-432, 2004 · 62 Pages · Posted: 21 Jan 2021 · Last revised: 16 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 105
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
799,009
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies