Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation in the UK: A Commentary

Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review (edited Adam S, Besley T, Blundell R, Bond S, Chote R, Gammie M, Johnson P, Myles G and Poterba J), Oxford University Press (Institute for Fiscal Studies, London), pp 78-89, 2010

15 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

The tax system in any one country is, as Sandford (2000, p. 3) reminds us, the product of an eclectic and sometimes even fortuitous amalgam of factors. “Historical circumstance, constitutions and legislative procedures, customs and cultures, lethargy and the costs of change, the effects of pressure groups, the influence of other countries and international groupings and agencies”, and even “the whim of a finance minister”, all play their part in shaping a country’s tax system as much as the identification and application of any supposedly sound economic policy drivers. The UK’s tax system is no exception.

Keywords: tax system, taxation, tax design

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles, Taxation in the UK: A Commentary (2010). Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review (edited Adam S, Besley T, Blundell R, Bond S, Chote R, Gammie M, Johnson P, Myles G and Poterba J), Oxford University Press (Institute for Fiscal Studies, London), pp 78-89, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3729021
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Braithwaite
Simplification of tax or I wouldn't start from here
British Tax Review , issue 1 , p. 18 - 26 Posted: 2000
M Cohen , H Stikeman , R Brown
Tax simplification, 27 th Tax Conference of the Canadian Tax Foundation Posted: 1975-11
Crossref
D Collard , S Green , Godwin M Maskell , L
The tax compliance costs for employers of PAYE and National Insurance in 1995-96 Posted: 1998
Crossref
C Evans
Taxing personal capital gains: operating cost implications, Sydney: Australian Tax Research Foundation Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
644,872
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies