Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Delphi Technique

Taxation: A Fieldwork Research Handbook, (edited Oats L), Routledge, London, pp 228-241, 2012

20 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2020

Chris Evans

University of New South Wales

Kate Collier

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

This chapter explores the Delphi technique, which is “a qualitative method for obtaining consensus among a group of experts” (Lewis-Beck et al, 2010). It usually seeks to obtain this consensus through “repeated iterations (usually by email) of anonymized opinions and of proposed compromise statements from the group moderator” (Bloor and Wood, 2006). The problems to which the method is applied are generally complex and lacking simple definition or obvious solutions, which makes it a very useful tool in the taxation context.

Keywords: Delphi technique, taxation, tax reform, personal income tax

Suggested Citation:

Evans, Christopher Charles and Collier, Kate, The Delphi Technique (2012). Taxation: A Fieldwork Research Handbook, (edited Oats L), Routledge, London, pp 228-241, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3729018
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
M Adler , E Ziglio
Gazing into the Oracle: The Delphi Method and its Application Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
286
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
243,680
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies