Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Live Stock in Australia: A Critical Review of Tax Law and Policy

49(3) Australian Tax Review 209-233 (2020)

25 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Christina Allen

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

One of the fundamental aims of any income tax system is to measure the net income earned by taxpayers during a given financial year. This can be difficult for primary production businesses involving live animals because animals are inherently different from other kinds of assets. Whereas previously Australia's tax system allowed primary producers to use either a market valuation or cost-based valuation to assess the value of their animals, the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) introduced changes that brought live animals under the rules for ordinary trading stock. This article offers a critique of the policies embodied in the Act and its approach to taxing animals in primary production. In particular, it highlights the outdated prescribed values given to live stock acquired through natural increase (ie offspring) and biased tax concessions that apply to certain types of animals. These tax rules have not been reviewed in decades and urgently need to be reassessed.

Keywords: live stock, trading stock, Australian tax, offspring, livestock, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Christina, Taxation of Live Stock in Australia: A Critical Review of Tax Law and Policy (October 1, 2020). 49(3) Australian Tax Review 209-233 (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3730528
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Income Tax Assessment Act 1922 (Cth) s 2, Sch; Income Tax Regulations 1922 (Cth) reg 50
Commonwealth
Royal Commission on Taxation , p. 117 - 123 Posted: 1922
which discuss a variety of live stock used by both breeders and dealers in ways other than as plant , volume 33 , p. 117 - 123
This case is contrasted with Case L49 (1960) 11 TBRD 279, in which sheep was disposed Posted: 1926
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
934
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies