Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
National Tax Clinic Program in the Northern Territory, Australia. A Project Model Innovation.

Journal of Australian Taxation, Vol. 22, No. 2, Article 9, pp. 174- 192, 2020

18 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2021

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This paper provides an overview of the activities undertaken by the Charles Darwin University Tax Clinic (‘CDU Tax Clinic’) – located in Australia’s Northern Territory – as part of the inaugural National Tax Clinic Program conducted over the course of 2019. The CDU Tax Clinic was designed as a teaching clinic in order to assist unrepresented taxpayers with their taxation affairs while offering students real-world, client-based and practical experience. The project design considered the population distribution of the Northern Territory and ways of reaching unrepresented taxpayers located in three major towns, adopting an intrapreneurial and client-centred approach with the CDU Tax Clinic open seven days per week. In the period from late June 2019 to the end of October 2019, the CDU Tax Clinic served 266 clients in various ways, with six students undertaking work experience. The average time spent with a client was approximately two and a half hours. This paper provides a roadmap to maximising outreach to clients in thinly populated geography. The findings are analysed in terms of clients who visited the CDU Tax Clinic and are generalisable to such populations. This paper shows the impact of a social project assisting socially disadvantaged groups, and a university engaging with the community through a professor and students.

Keywords: free tax clinic, national tax clinic, Alice Springs, Darwin, Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia

JEL Classification: P19

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, National Tax Clinic Program in the Northern Territory, Australia. A Project Model Innovation. (2020). Journal of Australian Taxation, Vol. 22, No. 2, Article 9, pp. 174- 192, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3734193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
L Ang , F Buttle
Managing for Successful Customer Acquisition: An Exploration'
Journal of Marketing Management , volume 22 , issue 3-4 , p. 295 - 317 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Supporting NFPs through Tax Clinics (Web Page Posted: 2020-08
L Bagnoli , C Megali
Measuring performance in social enterprises'. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 40 , p. 149 - 165 Posted: 2011
M J Bako , J Syed
Women's Marginalization in Nigeria and the Way Forward'. Human Resource Development International , volume 21 , p. 425 - 443 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
508
RANK
872,691
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies