Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Designing of Accounting Information System for Small and Medium Enterprises: Application of PLS-SEM

International Journal of Sciences: Basic and Applied Research (IJSBAR) (2020) Volume 54, No 3, pp 124-139

17 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2021

Minyahil Assrfa

Jigjiga University

Dr. Yadavilli Jagannadha Rao

Jigjiga University

Abenet Yohannes Hailu

Jigjiga University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 19, 2020

Abstract

Accounting information system is a complex and subjective concept that lacks a comprehensive conceptual framework. Previous AIS studies focused on the context of information systems and its benefit. Moreover, existing studies have revealed contradictory results. Some authors argue that full AIS adoption is necessary for all organizations, regardless of their size. Others proposed a reduced level. Nevertheless, they have not confirmed a subsystem of AIS that proclaimed as less important for SMEs. In response to this gap, the present study has attempted to design an AIS framework for SMEs. As such, this research aims to decompose and identify the important sub-systems that constitute AIS. To fulfill this purpose, the research employed an exploratory research design that used the Partial List Squire-Structural Equation Model. Primary data were collected from eighty SMEs. The study result confirmed that the transaction-processing subsystem has the largest importance index followed by the reporting subsystem. Even though internal control is the least important, it was statistically significant in designing of AIS for SME. In the context of reporting, managerial reports (Budget preparation, variance analysis) are more important than financial accounting reports (FSEU). Regarding technology, whether IT is designed as simple as a manual system or as complex as EP, its effect on management decisions is minimum. Likewise, the internal auditing practice of SMEs has a very small impact on AIS alignment with accounting information users’ satisfaction. Collectively, the study confirmed that all subsystems of AIS are significantly important in the designing of the AIS conceptual framework for SMEs.

Keywords: Accounting Information System, Accounting, Conceptual framework, SMEs, PLS-SEM, Ethiopia

Suggested Citation:

Assrfa, Minyahil and Rao, Dr. Yadavilli Jagannadha and Yohannes Hailu, Abenet, Designing of Accounting Information System for Small and Medium Enterprises: Application of PLS-SEM (January 19, 2020). International Journal of Sciences: Basic and Applied Research (IJSBAR) (2020) Volume 54, No 3, pp 124-139, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3734436
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
A Muhindo , M Mzuza , J Zhou
Impact of accounting information systems on profitability of small scale businesses: A case of Kampala City in Uganda
International Journal of Academic Research in Management , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 185 - 192 Posted: 2014
M B Romney , P Steinbart
Accounting Information Systems Posted: 2012
G Tsoncheva
Measuring and Assessing the Quality and Usefulness of Accounting Information
Journal of the University of Economics-Varna , volume 9 , p. 52 - 64 Posted: 2014
T Elsharif
The Elements of Accounting Information Systems and the Impact of Their Use on the Relevance of Financial Information in Wahda Bank-Benghazi
Libya. Open Journal of Business and Management , volume 7 , p. 1429 - 1450 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
807
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,161
RANK
70,218
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies