Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Shall We Say is Better Accounting

11 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2021

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Date Written: August 17, 2018

Abstract

Everybody wants better accounting, but what is better is unclear. MC Escher’s drawing (Figure 1) makes it difficult to know which way is up. If you visually follow the people moving clockwise, they are going round and round climbing the stairs, always going up, yet staying in the same place. If you follow those moving counter-clockwise, they are going round and round, always climbing down the same stairs repeatedly. Every part of the picture is perfectly logical and geometrically correct. Yet, the whole is a ridiculous impossibility. In our local efforts to find better ways of doing accounting, how much progress do we make towards our global objective?

Keywords: better accounting, multiple perspectives, individual and agggregate

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Sunder, Shyam, What Shall We Say is Better Accounting (August 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3736990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3736990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies