Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Antecedents and Consequences of Burnout in Accounting: Beyond the Role Stress Model

Posted: 21 Oct 1997

Timothy J. Fogarty

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Jagdip Singh

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Marketing and Policy Studies

Gary K. Rhoads

Brigham Young University - J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott School of Management

Ronald K. Moore

Bemidji State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 1997

Abstract

The burnout condition of employees is a well-known phenomenon in psychology and several applied business disciplines. Despite some degree of recognition in the practice community, little explicit academic accounting recognition of this topic appears to exist. This paper introduces the burnout construct by showing that it has not been captured by other concepts in the literature. In addition to hypothesizing that burnout is directly related to several behavioral and attitudinal outcomes in public accounting practice, this paper proposes that burnout mediates the impact of role stressors on those outcomes. Within a national sample of accountants, the burnout condition is found to negatively affect satisfaction and performance and to positively affect turnover intentions. Furthermore, burnout partially mediated the influence of role conflict, role ambiguity and role overload on those outcomes. To some extent, burnout is capable of separating the functional and dysfunctional aspects of the role stressors on job outcomes.

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Fogarty, Timothy J. and Singh, Jagdip and Rhoads, Gary K. and Moore, Ronald K., Antecedents and Consequences of Burnout in Accounting: Beyond the Role Stress Model (August 1997). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=37387
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,522
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies