Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain and Other Distributed Ledger Technologies, An Advanced Primer

Babich V, Birge J, Hilary G (eds) Innovative Technology at the interface of Finance and Operations. Springer Series in Supply Chain Management, forthcoming, Springer Nature.

Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3740067

34 Pages Posted: 5 Jan 2021 Last revised: 8 Mar 2021

Gilles Hilary

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: November 30, 2020

Abstract

Although there are many versions of blockchain technology today, it was first introduced in 2008 as the technology supporting Bitcoin, the first successful virtual currency system. Yet in and of itself, Blockchain technology is much more than the underpinning for Bitcoin (and other cryptocurrencies) and has found many applications beyond its initial purpose. The goal of this advanced primer is to review the current state of this technology and to discuss some of its advantages and drawbacks in settings beyond crypto-currencies.

Keywords: Blochchain, distributed ledger technology

Suggested Citation:

Hilary, Gilles, Blockchain and Other Distributed Ledger Technologies, An Advanced Primer (November 30, 2020). Babich V, Birge J, Hilary G (eds) Innovative Technology at the interface of Finance and Operations. Springer Series in Supply Chain Management, forthcoming, Springer Nature., Georgetown McDonough School of Business Research Paper No. 3740067, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3740067 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3740067
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
Press Accenture , Release
Posted: 2016
Crossref
Al Jawaheri , Al Husam , Yazan Sabah , Boshmaf
Deanonymizing Tor hidden service users through Bitcoin transactions analysis, working paper Posted: 2019
Crossref
Iyke Aru
Tokenization: The Force Behind Blockchain Technology Posted: 2017
Leemon Baird
Hashgraph Consensus: Detailed Examples Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,620
RANK
95,771
4 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Economics of Networks eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies