Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Griffith Tax Clinic

Journal of Australian Tax, 22(2): 64-95 (2020)

Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 21-5

37 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2021 Last revised: 10 Feb 2021

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Colin Perryman

Griffith University

Kristin Thomas

Griffith University

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Date Written: December 7, 2020

Abstract

Griffith University (Queensland) was one of 10 Australian universities chosen to be part of the 2019 National Tax Clinic Project. This project sort to expand the foundation work done by Curtin University (Western Australia) to establish student tax clinics across Australia. The objectives of these clinics was to provide greater access to justice for unrepresented taxpayers, a rich learning environment for students, and greater tax literacy for the community. The Griffith Tax Clinic opened its doors to the public in July 2019, and this article reports the experience of the Griffith Tax Clinic in its first year of operation and sets out key learning and recommendations gleaned from that.

Keywords: WIL, tax clinic, tax

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Perryman, Colin and Thomas, Kristin and Belle Isle, Melissa, The Griffith Tax Clinic (December 7, 2020). Journal of Australian Tax, 22(2): 64-95 (2020), Griffith University Law School Research Paper No. 21-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743870
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
804
RANK
653,956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies