Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Signal Theory Model for Continuous Monitoring and Intelligence Systems

19 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: September 9, 2020

Abstract

Continuous monitoring and intelligence systems analyze data and text from various sources and use that information to monitor risk, controls, reputations, companies, people, opportunities, competition, and other concerns. We summarize some of the previous literature for such systems and the capabilities of existing continuous monitoring systems. Unfortunately, there has been limited theoretical development for such systems. We view the monitored information sources as providing information signals relating to events, activities, issues, etc. Systems must choose which information sources to monitor and gather information from. Unfortunately, choice of such source systems is not a straightforward problem, but must account for time, cost, redundancy, reliability, relevance, information asymmetries, weak signals, and other issues. Further, analytics must be generated to monitor signals created from the information sources to gather the information needed for the system. Accordingly, this paper generates and applies a signal theory model to address these issues. This allows us to elicit several issues of potential importance associated with the design and implementation of such systems.

Keywords: signal theory, continuous monitoring, continuous auditing, continuous intelligence

JEL Classification: m42, m15

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., A Signal Theory Model for Continuous Monitoring and Intelligence Systems (September 9, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3746001 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746001
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M G Alles , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Restoring auditor credibility: tertiary monitoring and logging of continuous assurance systems
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 183 - 202 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Alles , G Brennan , A Kogan , M A Vasarhelyi
Continuous monitoring of business process controls: A pilot implementation of a continuous auditing system at Siemens
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 137 - 161 Posted: 2006
Crossref
G A Akerlof
The market for "Lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
In Quarterly Journal for Economics , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
David P Baron
Persistent media bias
Journal of Public Economics , volume 90 , p. 1 - 36 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,196
RANK
303,670
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies