Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Important Developments in Federal Income Taxation (2020)

58Th Annual Great Plains Tax Institute, 2020

142 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2021

Edward A. Morse

Creighton University - School of Law

Date Written: December 3, 2020

Abstract

This outline covers significant developments in federal income taxation arising during the past year. It offers a selective treatment focusing on items likely to interest practitioners and advisors within a broad range of professional practices.Tax Court decisions (regular and memorandum) and appellate cases receive greater attention on account of their legal significance; Tax Court summary opinions and unreported appellate cases are omitted. Other trial decisions in the district court and claims court receive only limited attention due to their comparatively limited impact on tax law development. A few noteworthy administrative developments are also included, but such discussion is not comprehensive. Some employment tax cases are also noted in part VIII, and part IX concludes with a high-level summary of tax provisions in the CARES act and other recent tax legislation. This version includes updates through November 30, 2020.

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Edward A., Important Developments in Federal Income Taxation (2020) (December 3, 2020). 58Th Annual Great Plains Tax Institute, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3746787 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746787
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Taxpayer ran a construction business using the name Number One Foundations. Beginning in 1985 or 1986, his son Stephen began working for him. Stephen opened two bank accounts for Number One Foundations at a local bank. He had sole signatory authority over the accounts, and he used them to pay bills and expenses, including payroll. Number One Foundations paid him $600-$800 per week for his work. Taxpayer had his own method for bookkeeping, which included the use of stairs inside his home. Paid invoices were kept on one stair, and during the years at issue, he had his then-girlfriend take the paid invoices
Belanger v. Commissioner, TC Memo , p. 2020 - 130 Posted: 2020
rule by paying the tax associated with one employee and then pursuing refund litigation if the refund claim is denied. Presumably, there would be an opportunity to use a favorable judgment to prevent collection of tax associated with the other employees subject to the TFRP
Memorandum on Deferring Payroll Tax Obligations in Light of the Ongoing COVID-19 Disaster , volume 4 Posted: 2020-08-08
President Trump issued an executive order directing the Secretary of the Treasury to defer collection and deposits of payroll taxes on those employees whose income payable during any bi-weekly pay period is less than $4,000. The Secretary is also directed to "explore avenues, including legislation, to eliminate the obligations to pay the taxes deferred…
Updated Social Security wage base for 2021, Press Release (October 13, 2020) available at , volume 800
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,180
RANK
330,157
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies