Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Accounting as an Element of Information Resources Management of an Enterprise

EUREKA: Social and Humanities, 1(1), 3-9. doi: 10.21303/2504-5571.2020.001045

7 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021

Mykola Matiukha

Kyiv National University of Technologies and Design

Alexander Rovnyagin

Kyiv National University of Technologies and Design

Date Written: January 31, 2020

Abstract

The questions of the information resources organization and formation mechanism of an enterprise through financial and managerial reporting data and accounting data prism are highlighted. The sequence formation elements and enterprise information resources use are considered. The formation of the enterprises information resource, based on managerial accounting, is studied, which is a priority aspect of modern decision-making support, as well as other components of business tools - financial management and audit.

Information resource management has certain functions that are general and inherent in all business systems. The nature of the prepared reports and information filling of the financial statements are subordinated to general objectives. That is, it contains a range of financial information that should be publicly available and useful to a wide range of users and decision-making, and not specifically devised to the needs of a particular group or set of decision-making. Managerial reports are specialized reports that are designed either for a solution of a specific decision or for a specific manager.

The directions of the information resource management development on the basis of information technology use and information technology impact on the accounting development are disclosed.

Keywords: managerial accounting; managerial reporting; information systems; information technologies; information resource

Suggested Citation:

Matiukha, Mykola and Rovnyagin, Alexander, Managerial Accounting as an Element of Information Resources Management of an Enterprise (January 31, 2020). EUREKA: Social and Humanities, 1(1), 3-9. doi: 10.21303/2504-5571.2020.001045, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748600
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
M Т Belukha
Forensic accounting Posted: 2004
S F Holov
Bulletin of the National university «Lviv Polytechnic». Management and entrepreneurship in Ukraine: stages of formation and development problems , volume 794 , p. 153 - 157 Posted: 2014
V V Sopko
Accounting in enterprise management Posted: 2006
V O Osmyatchenko , V S Oliynyk
Modeling the formation of reporting performance indicators for employees
Economic Bulletin. Series: Finance, Accounting, Taxation , volume 1 , p. 160 - 166 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
524,740
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies