Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Crowdsourcing for Innovation in the Big 4 Consulting Firms

27 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

This paper investigates the use of crowdsourcing for innovation in the Big 4 consulting firms. Information about each of the five firms’ is captured in a case study developed for comparison purposes. Those cases are used to examine emerging intra-enterprise characteristics, to analyze some of the key emerging dimensions, and to begin to understand some of the primary concerns and research issues regarding crowdsourcing in consulting. This paper focuses both on internal enterprise use and issues related to developing crowdsourcing for others as part of advisory activities.

Keywords: Crowdsourcing, Innovation, Big Four, Wiki Strat

JEL Classification: M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Enterprise Crowdsourcing for Innovation in the Big 4 Consulting Firms (December 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748897 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3748897
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
W Abernathy , K Clark
Innovation: Mapping the winds of creative destruction
Research Policy , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 22 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Accenture
Accenture Posted: 2014
Accenture
Crossref
A Cain
The Power of More than One Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,252
RANK
280,691
1 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies