Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enterprise Architecture for Accounting and Finance Transformation: Using Strategy Maps to Develop “High Performance Finance”

44 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: December 15, 2020

Abstract

Enterprise architecture has received limited attention in the accounting information systems literature. However, enterprise architecture can provide an important approach for transforming an organization and bringing strategy into organizations. Recently, The Hartford implemented an approach that used Kaplan and Norton’s well known “strategy maps” as part of the enterprise architecture process to transform the finance department and embed strategy into accounting and finance.

The process generated a creative future state that included a linear flow of information that mirrored the information life cycle, while providing a “single source of truth” archive for financial information. This paper reviews and analyzes The Hartford’s unique use of strategy maps to redesign the finance function in order to attain “high performance finance.” In so doing, the paper investigates a unique approach, an “innovative practice,” that allows grounding accounting and financial information systems in an organization’s strategy formulation process.


Keywords: Strategy Maps, Accounting/Finance Transformation, Reengineering, Enterprise Architecture, Accounting Information Systems, Digital Transformation

JEL Classification: M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Enterprise Architecture for Accounting and Finance Transformation: Using Strategy Maps to Develop “High Performance Finance” (December 15, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3748863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3748863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
There also are several other potential extensions to the approach used by The Hartford. First, this same approach can be used for other "internal perspectives" (figure 3), such as Posted: 2011-06-30
Accenture
The CFO as the Architect of Business Value Posted: 2014
R Bergman , J Davila
High Performance Finance Posted: 2013
F Belfo , A Trigo
Accounting information systems: Tradition and future directions
Procedia Technology , volume 9 , p. 536 - 546 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
332
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,149
RANK
207,517
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies