Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Five Common Finance and Accounting Problems of Start-Up Companies

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

16 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 14 Jan 2025

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Earl Stice

Brigham Young University; Nazarbayev University

James Stice

Brigham Young University

Date Written: October 1, 2020

Abstract

You have a product or service for which the world has been waiting. You've scraped together enough cash to get your idea off the ground. You are confident that your business will succeed. And yet, it is often the case that a short time later you are out of business. Numbers from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate that about half of new businesses fail within the first five years. And with those business failures go the life savings and the dreams of the person who started the business. This article describes five finance and accounting pitfalls that should be avoided in order to increase the likelihood that a small business will succeed. Of course, the most common reason for a small business to fail is that customers don't want the product or service. But small businesses are also often killed because of predictable and preventable finance and accounting mistakes: insufficient capital, poor cash management, poor record keeping and controls, improper product pricing, and uncontrolled growth.


Keywords: insufficient capital, poor cash management, poor record keeping and controls, improper product pricing, uncontrolled growth

JEL Classification: G1, G53, M1, M13, M41

Suggested Citation:

Stice, Derrald and Stice, Earl and Stice, James, Five Common Finance and Accounting Problems of Start-Up Companies (October 1, 2020). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3759438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3759438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,231
RANK
193,945
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies