Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Triple-entry Accounting, Blockchain and Next of Kin: Towards a Standardization of Ledger Terminology

35 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Juan Ignacio Ibañez

UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies; The DLT Science Foundation

Dr. Chris N. Bayer

Development International e.V.

Paolo Tasca

UCL Centre for Blockchain Technologies

Jiahua Xu

University College London - Department of Computer Science; The DLT Science Foundation; École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); UCL

Date Written: January 5, 2021

Abstract

Triple-entry accounting (TEA) is one of the novelest notions in the blockchain world. However, the lack of a consistent and comprehensive set of categories to give account of it impedes a proper apprehension of the concept, leading to contradictions and to overlooking its specificity. In order to clearly delineate the confines of TEA, we create a typology to distinguish between essential elements such as accounting and bookkeeping, as well as between decentralized systems, distributed ledgers and distributed journals.

Keywords: triple-entry accounting, blockchain, Distributed Ledger Technology, decentralization

Suggested Citation:

Ibañez, Juan Ignacio and Bayer, Dr. Chris N. and Tasca, Paolo and Xu, Jiahua, Triple-entry Accounting, Blockchain and Next of Kin: Towards a Standardization of Ledger Terminology (January 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3760220 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3760220
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
Ab
Accounting Blockchain Whitepaper Posted: 2018
T Boyle
The Argument to Abolish Double-Entry Accounting and Abolish the Assets=Liabilities + Owner's Equity Equation
Ledgerism. Available at Posted: 2003
R G Brown
Richard Gendal Brown: Thoughts on the Future of Finance Posted: 2016
V Buterin
The Meaning of Decentralization Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
487
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,978
RANK
133,890
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Computer Science Education eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies