Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainable Investing: The Black Box of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Ratings

Abhayawansa, S. and Tyagi, S., (2021), Sustainable investing: The black box of environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings, Journal of Wealth Management (Forthcoming)

8 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021

Subhash Abhayawansa

Swinburne University of Technology

Shailesh Tyagi

Viridi Global

Date Written: February 2, 2021

Abstract

Environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing is becoming mainstream, and the COVID-19 pandemic has amplified the momentum. The interest in ESG investing has created greater demand for ESG data, ratings and rankings together with a proliferation of agencies offering these products which are unquestioningly relied on by investors, academics and regulators. Research highlights that different ESG ratings and rankings produce significantly different assessments of the ESG performance of companies. In this paper, we examine the causes of the differences in the ratings and ranking produced by different agencies. It is found that the divergences between raters can be attributed to differences in defining ESG constructs (i.e., theorisation problem) and methodological differences (i.e., commensurability problem). While users of ESG ratings and rankings are advised to study the definitions and methodologies prior to their use, lack of transparency about the data sources, weightings and methodologies makes it difficult to ensure that companies’ true ESG performance is accounted for when making portfolio selection and investment decisions. As a solution, we suggest that instead of attempting to compare and contrast ratings and rankings of different agencies, investors should determine ESG constructs material to their investment strategy and match them with an ESG ratings/rankings product that closely resemble those constructs.

Keywords: Environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings, socially responsible investing, commensurability, sustainability reporting

JEL Classification: P45

Suggested Citation:

Abhayawansa, Subhash and Tyagi, Shailesh, Sustainable Investing: The Black Box of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Ratings (February 2, 2021). Abhayawansa, S. and Tyagi, S., (2021), Sustainable investing: The black box of environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings, Journal of Wealth Management (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3777674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3777674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
K Allen
Lies, damned lies and ESG rating methodologies
Financial Times Posted: 2018
A K Chatterji , R Durand , D I Levine , S Touboul
Do ratings of firms converge? Implications for managers, investors and strategy researchers
Strategic Management Journal , volume 37 , issue 8 , p. 1597 - 1614 Posted: 2016
Crossref
S A E Commission
Modernization of Regulation S-K Items 101, 103, and 105 (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Posted: 2020
G Dorfleitner , G Halbritter , M Nguyen
Measuring the level and risk of corporate responsibility -An empirical comparison of different ESG rating approaches
Journal of Asset Management , volume 16 , issue 7 , p. 450 - 466 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
14 Citations
Thomas M. Brunner-Kirchmair , Eva Wagner
The impact of corporate social responsibility on the performance of mergers and acquisitions: European evidence
Cleaner Environmental Systems , volume 12 , p. 100167 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Guillaume Coqueret
Perspectives in ESG equity investing
81 Pages · Posted: 13 Nov 2020 · Last revised: 10 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 4,013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Sureyya Burcu Avci , Gozde Esen
Country-Level Sustainability and Cross-Border Banking Flows
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal · 33 Pages · Posted: 30 Mar 2021 · Last revised: 3 Jul 2022 · Downloads: 133
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Özge Sahin , Karoline Bax , Claudia Czado , Sandra Paterlini
Environmental, Social, Governance scores and the Missing pillar - Why does missing information matter?
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management · 27 Pages · Posted: 24 Jul 2021 · Last revised: 20 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 377
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
4,224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,989
RANK
5,554
14 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies