Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Risk Based Internal Audit in Improving Audit Quality

Erlina, Abdillah Arif Nasution, Idhar Yahya and Agung Wahyudhi Atmanegara, The Role of Risk Based Internal Audit in Improving Audit Quality, International Journal of Management, 11(12), 2020, pp 299-310

12 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021

Erlina Erlina

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Abdillah Arif Nasution

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Idhar Yahy

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Agung Wahyudhi Atmanegara

Universitas Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

This research was conducted with the aim of identifying the internal auditor's understanding of Risk Based Internal Audit (RBIA), identifying the application of risk assessment and risk matrix in the Government of North Sumatra Province. Produce driving and inhibiting factors for the application of risk based internal audit in the Government of North Sumatra Province. This research was conducted using quantitative approaches. The research population is internal auditors in the local government, while the informants in this study are people who understand the problems of implementing Risk Based Internal Audit. The variables that are thought to affect the successful implementation of risk based internal audit are the role of the internal auditor function, top management commitment, training, policy framework, and communication processes. The results showed that top management commitment, training, policy framework had a significant effect on the success of risk management implementation, while the role of the internal audit function and the communication process had no significant effect on the application of risk based internal audit. The results showed that the application of risk based internal audit has a significant effect on the quality of internal audit.

Keywords: risk based internal audit, top management commitment, training, policy framework, communication process

Suggested Citation:

Erlina, Erlina and Nasution, Abdillah Arif and Yahy, Idhar and Atmanegara, Agung Wahyudhi, The Role of Risk Based Internal Audit in Improving Audit Quality (2020). Erlina, Abdillah Arif Nasution, Idhar Yahya and Agung Wahyudhi Atmanegara, The Role of Risk Based Internal Audit in Improving Audit Quality, International Journal of Management, 11(12), 2020, pp 299-310, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785747
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Abdol Mohammadi , M J Burnaby , P Hass , S
A review of the common body of knowledge (CBOK) studies in internal auditing and an overview of the global CBOK
Managerial Auditing Journal , issue 8 , p. 811 - 832 Posted: 2006
J G Christensen
Hierarchical and Contractual Approaches to Budgetary Reform
Journal of Theoretical Politics , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 91 Posted: 1992
Crossref
Putri Erlina , D R Sopanah , A Young , I
A Model of Successful Risk Based on Internal Audit Implementation in Regencies
Cities In North Sumatra Posted: 2018-10
Putri Erlina , D R Sopanah
Model of Successful Risk Based Internal Audit Implementation in Regencies/Cities in North Sumatera
International Journal of Civil Engineering and Technology , p. 615 - 627 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
743
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
78,434
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies