Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrated reporting: Evidence from developed, developing and an emerging economy

17 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 12 Apr 2021

Dewan Azmal Hossain

Independent; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 15, 2021

Abstract

With the changing landscape in the corporate world, exploring value-maximizing activities has become a trend. Through integrated reporting organizations tell the story of overall performance and value-creating activities to their stakeholders (Deloitte, 2016). Current corporate reporting creates a gap between the stakeholders’ expectation and actual corporate reporting and integrated reporting helps organizations to disclose both their short term and long term value-maximizing activities to their stakeholders (KPMG, 2012). The aim of this essay is to discuss what integrated reporting is objective/importance of Integrated Reporting, Competitive advantage of Integrated Reporting, Integrated Reporting Framework as per The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), Components of Integrated Reporting, Integrated Reporting Practices in Developed Countries, Integrated Reporting Practices in Asian Countries, Integrated Reporting Practices in Bangladesh, Areas of Future Research from the perspective of Bangladesh.

Keywords: Integrated report, Developed country, Developing country, Bangladesh

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Dewan Azmal and Hossain, Dewan Azmal, Integrated reporting: Evidence from developed, developing and an emerging economy (February 15, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3785764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3785764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Adoption of integrated reporting by the ASX 50
ACCA Posted: 2011
Understanding the integrated reporting framework
~:text=Integrated%20reporting%20in%20Canada&text=In%20Canada%2C %20companies%20are%20experimenting Posted: 2020
Deloitte
Integrated Reporting. Retrieved from: www2.deloitte Posted: 2016
V Gaud
Integrated reporting in India: 2019. IIRC Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
200
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
347,495
1 Citations
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies