Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Symmetric Prudence in New Definitions of Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting

Shkulipa, L. (2021). Symmetric Prudence in new definitions of Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. New Challenges in Accounting and Finance. Vol. 5. P. 35-49

15 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2021 Last revised: 27 Mar 2021

Lyudmyla Shkulipa

International European University; NAAS of Ukraine

Date Written: January 5, 2021

Abstract

Since the version of the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting is revised, the interest in accounting concepts that are fundamental in financial reporting has been growing. The purpose of this article is to investigate the evolutionary logic of prudence in the definitions and recognition criteria of assets and liabilities, the causes and consequences of new changes in the Conceptual Framework of 2018. As a result, it was obtained that different interpretations of probability and asymmetric asset and liability identification caused the new changes. The reconciliation between the intentions of new asset and liabilities definitions and their correct understanding results has been illustrated. A new complication in defining obligation such as “no practical ability to avoid” was found. In conclusion, we constant the new definitions as the positive consequence from a psychological point of view, simplifying individuals judgments, as from a conceptual point of view, leading to the common understanding and improvements of qualitative characteristics of financial information. The direct evidence of conceptual improvement is symmetric prudence as support of financial statements’ fundamental qualitative characteristics – faithful representation.

Keywords: Asset, Liability, Probability, Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting, Item, Definitions, Prudence

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Shkulipa, Lyudmyla, Symmetric Prudence in New Definitions of Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (January 5, 2021). Shkulipa, L. (2021). Symmetric Prudence in new definitions of Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. New Challenges in Accounting and Finance. Vol. 5. P. 35-49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3789753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3789753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
J Aharony , A Dotan
A comparative analysis of auditor, manager, and financial analyst interpretations of SFAS 5 disclosure guidelines
Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , volume 31 , issue 3-4 , p. 475 - 504 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Amer , K Hackenbrack , M Nelson
Between-auditor differences in the interpretation of probability phrases
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 126 - 136 Posted: 1994
H R Arkes
Costs and benefits of judgment errors: implications for debiasing
Psychological Bulletin , volume 110 , issue 3 , p. 486 - 498 Posted: 1991
Crossref
S Basu
The conservatism principle and the asymmetric timeliness of earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 37 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
328
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
210,213
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies