Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Historical Analysis of Income Statement – A Case Study Salalah Mills Company Oman

International Journal of Research in Entrepreneurship & Business Studies, Vol. 1, issue. 2, 2020, pp. 22-28

7 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2021 Last revised: 8 Apr 2021

Balamurugan Muthuraman

The American College; Balamurugan Muthuraman

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose of the study: The objectives of the study were to critically analyse the financial performance of Salalah Mills Company (SMC), to examine the income statement position of the company and to study the profitability position and improvements of Salalah Mills Company.

Design/Methodology/Approach: The secondary data was obtained from the annual reports of Salalah Mills Company through the income statement for the period 2015 to 2019. The collected data was analysed using financial ratios involving excel and SPSS, to evaluate the Salalah Mills Company (SMC) profitability.

Findings: The study revealed that the reducing in company's gross profit (profit margin), pre-tax margin was due to the increase in cost of goods sold, administrative expenses, the cost of materials consumed, the selling and distribution expenses and the labour cost.

Research Implications: The study suggested that the company should reduce the cost of sales and administrative expenses to achieve increased gross profit margin. It was also suggested that the company should focus more towards marketing.

Practical Implications: The study suggested that the company should look for alternative for the raw materials such as buying wheat from the local farmers. It was also suggested that the company should work on finding ways and means to achieve good profits so as to satisfy the shareholders.

Originality/value: This research work is of its first own kind as the study focuses on the accounting perspectives of the food company in the Sultanate of Oman.

Keywords: Direct cost of sales, Operating Income of the Flour Mills, Income Statement Analysis, Financial ratios, Market share of flour mill

Suggested Citation:

Muthuraman, Balamurugan and Muthuraman, Balamurugan, Historical Analysis of Income Statement – A Case Study Salalah Mills Company Oman (2020). International Journal of Research in Entrepreneurship & Business Studies, Vol. 1, issue. 2, 2020, pp. 22-28, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3797171
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Entrepreneurship & Business Studies eISSN-2708-8006 , volume 2 , p. 22 - 27 Posted: 2021
Crossref
E Bartoloni , M Baussola
Financial performance in manufacturing firms: a comparison between parametric and non-parametric approaches
Business Economics , volume 49 , issue 1 , p. 32 - 45 Posted: 2014
Crossref
B K Behn , R A Riley
Using nonfinancial information to predict financial performance: The case of the US airline industry
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 29 - 56 Posted: 1999
Crossref
V Capkun , A P Hameri , L A Weiss
On the relationship between inventory and financial performance in manufacturing companies
International Journal of Operations & Production Management , volume 29 , issue 8 , p. 789 - 806 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
70
ABSTRACT VIEWS
690
RANK
772,528
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies