Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Significance of Information Contained in the Cash Flow Statement of Libyan Investment Companies

Journal of Computing and Management Studies, Issue 3. Volume 3. September 2019

22 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2021

Mohamed Yakalhef

Tripoli University - Economics and Political Faculty

Mohamed Matook

Bani Walid University

Date Written: September 3, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines the significance of the information contained in the Cash Flow statement of Libyan investment companies. It focuses on exploring the methods of Cash Flow Statement preparation do Libyan companies use and analyzing external and internal cash flow statement purposes. A questionnaire and interview methods were used to collect study data. Based on the research findings, it can be suggested that there are generally agreed between the study sample regarding the methods of Cash Flow Statement preparation. Most participants believed that the direct method of Cash Flow Statement was prepared to confirm their past evaluations and the management is kept abreast of the availability of cash to meet its ongoing needs. The main reason for using the direct method is that it provides actual inflows and outflows generated and employed. Regarding the possible purposes for preparation of Cash Flow Statements in Libyan investment companies, the study results indicated that the purpose of Cash Flow Statements are for external and internal purposes. The respondents indicated that Cash Flow Statements were used in their companies for different purposes such as the ability of a company to generate and maintain adequate levels of liquidity, to pay back loans and obligations, and to distribute dividends.

Suggested Citation:

Yakalhef, Dr Mohamed Abulgasem and Matook, Mohamed, The Significance of Information Contained in the Cash Flow Statement of Libyan Investment Companies (September 3, 2019). Journal of Computing and Management Studies, Issue 3. Volume 3. September 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3799592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3799592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Aloud
Role the cash flow statement in accounting system
Academy of Graduate Studies, Unpublished Master Dissertation Posted: 2005
R Barker
Institutional Investors, Accounting Information and the ASB: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Posted: 2001
Crossref
T Boyd , Danile T Cortese
Using the Cash Flow Statement to Improve Credit Analysis
Commercial Lending Review , p. 55 - 59 Posted: 2001
Greg Clinch , Baljit K. Sidhu , Samantha Sin
The Usefulness of Direct and Indirect Cash Flow Disclosures
Review of Accounting Studies, Vol. 7, No. 4, 2002 Pages: 44 Posted: 2 Feb 2001 Last revised: 25 Dec 2010
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
574
RANK
741,983
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies