Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability accounting

14 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2021 Last revised: 22 Feb 2022

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

This article offers a conceptual contribution to the development of sustainability accounting. Sustainability accounting is the contribution of accounting to sustainable development. Sustainability accounting has grown in importance in many countries. The paper uses discourse analysis to analyse sustainability at the conceptual level. This paper highlights the motivation for sustainability accounting, the definition of sustainability accounting, the objectives of sustainability accounting and the tools of sustainability accounting. The findings are significant in that they show that sustainability accounting can provide a reporting framework that allows organizations to commit significant resources to promote continuing sustainability in the interest of society and the environment.

Keywords: Sustainability accounting, sustainability, accounting, sustainability reporting, sustainable development; society; environment

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, Q01

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Sustainability accounting (2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3803384 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3803384
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
C A Adams , C Larrinaga-González
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 829 - 846 Posted: 2007
A Ball , R Craig
Using neo-institutionalism to advance social and environmental accounting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 21 , issue 4 , p. 283 - 293 Posted: 2010
A R Belal , S Cooper
The absence of corporate social responsibility reporting in Bangladesh
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 22 , issue 7 , p. 654 - 667 Posted: 2011
D Bent , J Richardson
The SIGMA Guidelines-Toolkit: Sustainability Accounting Guide Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,081
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,856
RANK
46,951
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies