Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Taxation of Entertainers and Sportspersons Under Art. 17 OECD-MC

Economic Alternatives, 2020, Issue 2

8 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Stoycho Dulevski

University of National and World Economy (UNWE)

Date Written: March 21, 2021

Abstract

The double tax treaties (DTT) are an important regulator in international tax law. The Preamble to them defines their aim and purpose - to reduce taxation trough tax evasion and avoidance in the field of taxes on income and capital.

It should be noted that they do not create new taxes, but they are supranational international agreements ensuring the fair tax treatment between states. According to Art. 5, para 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the international agreements such as the DTTs are part of the domestic law if they have been ratified, promulgated and entered into force. After the fulfilment of the three cumulative conditions, they take precedence over the domestic legislation for any conflicts.

The aim of the current study, with no claim to completeness and comprehensiveness, is to outline the scope of Art. 17 of the Model Tax Convention of Income and Capital of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD-MC) on the taxation of entertainers and sportspersons. The analysis will begin with a brief historical review. For this purpose, the last three versions of the Commentary of the OECD-MC (the Commentary) will be examined. The author will also focus on relevant international and domestic practical issues on the topic as well as a brief overview of the concluded DTTs between Bulgaria and other states. Finally, some thoughts will be expressed on the future development of the concept.

Keywords: international tax law, double tax treaties, OECD, taxation of entertainers and sportspersons

JEL Classification: H24, H26, K34

Suggested Citation:

Dulevski, Stoycho, An Analysis of the Taxation of Entertainers and Sportspersons Under Art. 17 OECD-MC (March 21, 2021). Economic Alternatives, 2020, Issue 2 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3809246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
W Loukota , M. ; Linde Stefaner , G Maisto
Taxation of Artistes and Sportsmen in International Tax Law
Taxation of Entertainers and Sportspersons Abroad, the Netherlands: IBFD Mihaylova-Goleminova S., 2018. Challenges Facing Member States and Candidate Countries of the European Union in the Field of Taxation Posted: 2007
D ; D Molenaar , M Tenore , R Vann
Red Card Article 17?
Taxation of International Performing Artistes, the Netherlands: IBFD Molenaar , volume 66 , p. 127 - 137 Posted: 2006
Issues related to Article 17 of the Model Tax Convention, Adopted by the OECD Committee on Fiscal Affairs on 26
OECD, (2010) Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital, Full Version Posted: 2010
Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital, Full Version Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
906
RANK
267,661
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies