Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating Project Cash Flows

29 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2021 Last revised: 7 Jul 2021

Samithamby Senthilnathan

International Training Institute

Date Written: March 30, 2021

Abstract

The cash flow estimation is important to evaluate projects in view of adding values to the owners’ equity of a firm. Cash flow estimation is a primary requirement for capital budgeting and using project evaluation techniques. Hence, this paper provides cash flow estimation methods from an accounting perspective to facilitate a reader understand the basics and bases of cash flows estimation with suitable exhibits from an accounting point of view. This paper provides explanations on basic principles of project cash flow estimation, meaning of incremental cash flow, trade-off between the equity and debt capitals used in projects, reason for excluding the cost of financing a project, tax concern, opportunity cost consideration, and the process and methods of estimating cash flows.

Keywords: Capital Budgeting, Project Evaluation, Cash Flow Estimate, Net Present Value, NPV, Cost of Capital, Opportunity Cost

JEL Classification: G3, G30, G31, G32, H43, M41, O22, Z33

Suggested Citation:

Senthilnathan, Samithamby, Estimating Project Cash Flows (March 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3815383 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3815383
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
What is Scrap Value of an Asset? , volume 12 , p. 30 - 33 Posted: 2020
S Bragg
Opportunity Cost of Capital
Accounting Tools -Accounting CPE Courses & Books Posted: 2020
Cfi
Hurdle Rate Definition
Corporate Finance Institute Posted: 2020
Farlex
Cost of Capital, Financial Dictionary -The Free Dictionary, Farlex , p. 22 - 25 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
433
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,363
RANK
154,007
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Project & Program Management eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies