Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comparative review of the Conceptual Framework’s structure

Shkulipa L. Comparative review of the Conceptual Framework’s structure // Strategies for sustainable socio-economic development and mechanisms their implementation in the global dimension: collective monograph / edited by M. Bezpartochnyi. Bulgaria: Sofia, VUZF University of Finance, Business and En

23 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2021

Lyudmyla Shkulipa

International European University; NAAS of Ukraine

Date Written: December 3, 2020

Abstract

This document is not part of IFRS but is directly related to them. The Conceptual Framework is rarely the main point when analyzing financial statements, and yet it is at the heart of every accounting standard ensuring consistency of terminology, recognition, and measurement (Rodgers, 2007). Everyone must learn this document before beginning to work with any IFRS or IAS. The Conceptual Framework contains a comprehensive set of concepts for presenting and preparing financial statements, creating and interpreting IFRS. In other words, the Conceptual Framework is the foundation of new accounting standards because this document resides in providing structure to the standard-setting process and to provide fundamental concepts and a common set of terms and premises that financial accounting standards are based upon (Gore and Zimmerman, 2007). The purpose of a Conceptual Framework for financial reporting is to ensure that financial accounting standards are “consistent with a unified theory of accounting” (Gore and Zimmerman, 2007, p. 30). Despite the stated importance of the Framework the accounting community could not have the one globally accepted framework. Given the purpose and importance of the Framework, a global Conceptual Framework could assist the IASB in achieving their mission “to develop a single set of high-quality, global accounting standards that are accepted worldwide” (Barth at al., 2008, p. 1161).

Keywords: Conceptual Framework; IFRS; IASB; GAAP; FASB

JEL Classification: M40; M39

Suggested Citation:

Shkulipa, Lyudmyla, Comparative review of the Conceptual Framework’s structure (December 3, 2020). Shkulipa L. Comparative review of the Conceptual Framework’s structure // Strategies for sustainable socio-economic development and mechanisms their implementation in the global dimension: collective monograph / edited by M. Bezpartochnyi. Bulgaria: Sofia, VUZF University of Finance, Business and En, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3818997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3818997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
A Tentative Statement of Accounting Principles Underlying Corporate Financial Statements
AAA Posted: 1936
M E Barth , W R Landsman , M H Lang
International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 467 - 498 Posted: 2008
Crossref
H G Bullen , K Crook
Revisiting the Concepts: A New Conceptual Framework Project Posted: 2005
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
780
RANK
436,942
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies