Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Security Law, Regulation and Public Policy for Accounting Professionals

Security4Accountants, 2021

70 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2021

John W. Bagby

Pennsylvania State University

Date Written: April 5, 2021

Abstract

The failed accounting “Cognitor” credential might have channeled accountancy into information security at the turn of the 21st Century. However, the accounting profession delayed this responsibility until recently: cybersecurity engagements, client confidentiality and attestations. Contrasting the earlier topic listings approach to certification exams, current certification exam content specifications increasingly seek to develop career long skills and foundations for intellectual growth. Scholarly preparation of future accountants requires knowledge of the pubic policy of security: law, regulation, standards in addition to professional work methods. In Part I this paper examines security and privacy conceptually to enable accountants’ professional growth. Part II then maps state, federal, international laws and professional standards to accounting professionals’ emerging cybersecurity and privacy duties.

Keywords: Accounting Profession, Security, Cyber-Security, Standards, Custodianship, Privacy

JEL Classification: K13, K22, K23, K30, G32, G28, G18, G02, L14, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bagby, John W., Security Law, Regulation and Public Policy for Accounting Professionals (April 5, 2021). Security4Accountants, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3819849
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Oliver E Williamson
Williamson is also known for theorizing about the incentives for preferring recurring supplier-customer relations over ad hoc relationships and for information impactedness where information costs remain elusive
J.SOC , p. 548 - 77 Posted: 1981
Under service level management (SLM) the monitoring and verification of agent activities has given rise to extensive attest activities of internal and external auditors as well as significant consulting activities directed to confirm the process efficacy of service organizations. The audit of Service Level Agreements (SLA) is governed by Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS), formerly well-known as the SAS-70 regime
Knolmayer, Gerhard F. & Petra Asprion, Assuring Compliance in IT Subcontracting and Cloud Computing , p. 21 - 45 Posted: 2011
( D C Cir
noting NLRB charge three types of unfair labor practices (ULP) in plant relocations: 1 st interference with organization, 2 nd discrimination/retaliation for union affiliation or activities, and 3 rd refusal to bargain with old union
2011 the NLRB attempted to revive the runaway shop doctrine against Boeing , volume 19 Posted: 1967-04
Thomas J Shaw
INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
RANK
580,215
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies