Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beneficial Ownership Transparency: Accomplishment and Obstacles

25 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2021

Antonio Lopo Martinez

University of Coimbra Institute for Legal Research; University of Salamanca

Date Written: April 6, 2021

Abstract

The study aims to review beneficial ownership transparency and its importance in combating corruption and tax abuses. The concept of beneficial ownership and the risk of opacity are discussed. Normative achievements regarding BO are exposed in international agreements. The main challenges are identified, namely: i) the establishment of open central registers, ii) the implementation of automatic mechanisms for the exchange of information, iii) the requirement of standardization and verification of information, and iv) the commitment of the governments for the dissemination and access of this information to potential interested in combating the offenses perpetrated using anonymous companies.

Keywords: beneficial ownership, central registry, corruption, tax abuse, transparency

JEL Classification: k34

Suggested Citation:

Martinez, Antonio Lopo, Beneficial Ownership Transparency: Accomplishment and Obstacles (April 6, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820479 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3820479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M O Abdelaal
Imposing Company Ownership Transparency Requirements: Opportunities for Effective Governance of Equity Capital Markets or Constraints on Corporate Performance
Chicago-Kent Journal of International and Comparative Law , volume 16 , issue 1 Posted: 2016
O Balakina , A D&apos;andrea , D Masciandaro
Bank secrecy in offshore centres and capital flows: Does blacklisting matter?
Review of Financial Economics , volume 32 , p. 30 - 57 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Shima Baradaran Baughman , Michael Findley , Daniel L. Nielson , J.C. Sharman
Does International Law Matter?
Pages: 83 Posted: 2 Jul 2012
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
C Clarke
What Are Tax Havens and Why Are They Bad Book Reviews
Texas Law Review , volume 95 , p. 59 - 80 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,932
RANK
98,516
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies