Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Financial Accounting Throughout Supply Chain Management: Now Is the Time

The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XX, No. 1, January 2021, pp. 28-36

Posted: 10 Apr 2021

Dinesh Dave

Independent

William M Baker

Queens University of Charlotte

Date Written: April 6, 2020

Abstract

Supply Chain Management (SCM) is unarguably the most critical organizational function, and it continues to gain high visibility, particularly due to current environmental issues. SCM is viewed as the coordination of all activities beginning from the fundamental raw materials until the final product reaches the consumer. SCM generally includes suppliers, manufacturing organizations, distributors, wholesalers and retailers. Accounting can potentially lead SCM to success, but financial accounting rules have always seemingly blocked the way. Today, however, financial accounting can lead SCM to success if one knows where to look for information and how to use it. As the effects of new revenue recognition rules trickle down into cost accumulation systems, there is no better time to harness financial accounting and derive ultimate SCM success. The paper describes how and why financial accounting rules hinder SCM. Also, the paper explains why now would be the best time ever to implement financial accounting rules into SCM. Finally, the study explains how to implement financial accounting into SCM success.

Suggested Citation:

Dave, Dinesh and Baker, William M, Using Financial Accounting Throughout Supply Chain Management: Now Is the Time (April 6, 2020). The IUP Journal of Accounting Research & Audit Practices, Vol. XX, No. 1, January 2021, pp. 28-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820650
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
272
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies