Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Treatment of Credit Loss Allowances Amid COVID-19: Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) Versus IFRS 9 Expected Credit Loss (ECL)

Journal of Applied Research in the Digital Economy(JADE), Special Issue on COVID-19, June 2020

11 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 2020

Abstract

Shortly before the COVID-19 crisis emerged worldwide accounting standard boards reformed the accounting requirements for the modeling and the accounting of credit loss allowances. The Financial Standards Board (FASB) issues new requirements effective 2020 and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) IFRS 9 becoming effective 2018. The crisis possible evolving from COVID-19 will be the first Locums test for the recent set-up expected credit loss model, which originally emerged out of another crisis the Global Financial Crisis in 2009. This article will provide an overview of this new expected credit loss model. This paper starts with a synopsis and explains main differences of the new credit models. The main conclusion is that the expected credit loss model although reflecting management approach the model once implemented must be mandatorily steadily pursued without change. All available information management is aware must be incorporated into the model. Therefore, companies cannot increase credit loss allowance based on prudence principle, but the change of macroeconomic outlook is a main driver of the credit model.


Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Accounting Treatment of Credit Loss Allowances Amid COVID-19: Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) Versus IFRS 9 Expected Credit Loss (ECL) (June 2020). Journal of Applied Research in the Digital Economy(JADE), Special Issue on COVID-19, June 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3824287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3824287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
D Beerbaum
Significant Increase in Credit Risk According to IFRS 9: Implications for Financial Institutions
International Journal of Economics & Management Sciences Posted: 2015
Dirk Beerbaum Dr. , Maciej Piechocki
IFRS 9 for Financial Institutions – The Case for IFRS and FINREP Taxonomies – A Conceptual Gap Analysis
Pages: 9 Posted: 25 Oct 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
T Bellini
IFRS 9 and CECL Credit Risk Modelling and Validation: A Practical Guide with Examples Worked in R and SAS Posted: 2019
D Binder
Managing the move from current US GAAP and IAS 39 to CECL and IFRS 9 Posted: 2019-04
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
876
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,359
RANK
62,856
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Health eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies