Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting in the Era of Blockchain - A Paradigm Shift from Double Entry to Triple Entry System

11 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2021

Emon Kalyan Chowdhury

Chittagong Independent University

Date Written: April 16, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to conceptualize the impact of blockchain technology on the financial accounting from technical and non-technical perspectives. It further investigates the way blockchain can improve the quality of accounting data. By reviewing the published research papers. this study observes that blockchain technology can create a platform for the organizations to disclose their information voluntarily in the short-run while it decreases errors in financial disclosure, enhances the quality of accounting information and reduce information redundancy in the long-run. A harmonized movement of accountants, auditors, regulatory authority and other relevant parties can extract the optimum benefits of blockchain technology in accounting ecosystem. This study indicates necessary way outs to improve the quality of accounting information by applying blockchain technology. It further identifies potential threats in implementing blockchain technology and recommends appropriate remedies. It is expected that, the findings of this study will encourage top management and policy makers to introduce blockchain technology in their business for log-term sustainability as well as to increase the quality of data and acceptability of their financial reports.

Keywords: Financial accounting, blockchain, information quality, distributed ledger technology, triple entry system

JEL Classification: M41, M42, L86, C55

Suggested Citation:

Chowdhury, Emon Kalyan, Financial Accounting in the Era of Blockchain - A Paradigm Shift from Double Entry to Triple Entry System (April 16, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3827591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3827591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
S Ahluwalia , R V Mahto , M Guerrero
Blockchain technology and startup financing: A transaction cost economics perspective
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 151 Posted: 2020
Crossref
S Basu , G Waymire
Has the importance of intangibles really grown? And if so, why
Accounting and business research , volume 38 , p. 171 - 190 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Bonyuet
Overview and impact of blockchain on auditing
Int. J. Digit. Account. Res , p. 31 - 43 Posted: 2020
Crossref
V Buterin
A next-generation smart contract and decentralized application platform. white paper, 3(37) Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
881
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,786
RANK
62,378
10 Citations
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies