Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Flexibility in Accounting on Financial Reporting,

European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 3, pp.74-87, 2021

14 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2021

Clement Chiahemba Ajekwe

Benue State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 17, 2021

Abstract

This essay explores the nature of flexibility in accounting, why it exists and its consequences for financial reporting. Flexibility in accounting (as opposed to rigidity or uniformity in accounting) offers preparers of accounting reports the ability to make acceptable adaptations or variations including the use of estimates including fair values, multiple and varied types of measurements, judgments and invoke “materiality” thresholds to record and report information. Flexibility offers the reporting managers opportunities to exercise professional judgment and discretion in determining the proper recording of transactions offered by accounting standards. Financial reporting regulators (e.g., Levitt, (1998: 2), a former Chairman of the American Securities and Exchange Commission) also support flexibility in accounting, although they have been constrained to observe that in some cases, preparers of financial statements have exploited the allowed flexibility to create illusions in their financial reports; illusions that are anything but true and fair reporting (Levitt, 1998). In particular, some public companies (such as Enron) have been known to abuse the legitimate flexibility in the application of accounting standards to produce financial results that distort performance and even slide down the slippery slope to fraud.

Keywords: Flexibility in Accounting; Estimates; Measurements in Accounting; Fair Value Estimates; Accounting Choices; Materiality

Suggested Citation:

Ajekwe, Clement Chiahemba, Impact of Flexibility in Accounting on Financial Reporting, (April 17, 2021). European Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance Research, Vol.9, No. 3, pp.74-87, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
F Allen , E Carletti
Mark-to-market accounting and liquidity pricing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 45 , p. 358 - 378 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Ball
Fair-value accounting: A cautionary tale from Enron
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , p. 465 - 484 Posted: 2006
M E Barth
Including estimates of future in today's financial statements
Accounting Horizons , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 285 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M Barth , W Landsman , M Lang , C Williams
Are IFRS-based and US GAAPbased accounting amounts comparable?
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 68 - 93 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,042
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,482
RANK
49,439
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies