Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anatomy of the Aloha State Earned Income Tax Credit

99 State Tax Notes 829 (Feb. 22, 2021)

7 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Francine J. Lipman

University of Nevada, Las Vegas - William S. Boyd School of Law

Christopher Pang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 19, 2021

Abstract

The Aloha State has been on the front line of justice for decades, including tax justice. This is the story of a two-decade-plus journey of the Hawaii earned income tax credit — including how the state might better serve financially challenged residents as they navigate the global pandemic’s economic consequences in 2021 and beyond.

Keywords: earned income tax credit, refundable tax credits, Hawaii, tax justice, tax credits, antipoverty relief, poverty, tax policy

JEL Classification: K34, Z18, H2, H20, H24, H71, I31, I32

Suggested Citation:

Lipman, Francine J. and Pang, Christopher, Anatomy of the Aloha State Earned Income Tax Credit (February 19, 2021). 99 State Tax Notes 829 (Feb. 22, 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3829352
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
888
RANK
459,276
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies