Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Costs, Taxes, and Value Creation

Rutgers Business Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2021, pp.112-121.

10 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2021

Murad Antia

University of South Florida

Arun Tandon

University of South Florida

Date Written: April 1, 2021

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) enacted in December 2017 will limit the deductibility of business interest expense to 30% of adjusted taxable income (ATI) beginning in 2022. This article uses earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as a proxy for ATI to examines how this bill will have an asymmetric impact on taxes, earnings, and cash flow from operations (CFO) of firms with interest coverage ratios (ICR) that are at or marginally above 3.33. Equity analysts will need to consider the higher volatility in estimated taxes paid in the future when using discounted Free Cash Flow (FCF) to value a firm’s equity. Issuing debt becomes less attractive with implications for the capital structure of the firm, bond ratings and use of leverage for growth, share repurchase or dividend payout. Firms with substantial interest deduction carryforwards because of inadequate EBIT, might want to sell or merge with firms with high ICRs that can take advantage of the unused interest deduction carryforwards. Firms attempting to reduce leverage might rollover maturing debt with qualified preferred stock issues.

Keywords: tax, accounting, finance, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Antia, Murad and Tandon, Arun, Interest Costs, Taxes, and Value Creation (April 1, 2021). Rutgers Business Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2021, pp.112-121., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3832121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D J Lynch
Corporate debt nears a record $10 trillion, and borrowing binge poses new risks
The Washington Post Posted: 2019-11-29
Corporate bonds and loans are at the centre of a new financial scare
The Economist Posted: 2020-03-14
Business and the next recession
The Economist Posted: 2020-02-22
Interest coverage ratio -breakdown by industry Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
631,616
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies