Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence Ethics Taxonomy - Robotic Process Automation (RPA) as Business Case

Special Issue ‘Artificial Intelligence& Ethics’ European Scientific Journal 2021

20 Pages Posted: 4 May 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 26, 2021

Abstract

A Robotic Process Automation (RPA) enabled by Artificial intelligence (AI) has become an important field within the digitalisation of the economy. AI-driven robots and machines are forecasted to grow dramatically in the next years. AI-enabled RPA replaces the work a human would normally do by mimicking interactions with applications and provides direct access to systems using APIs. RPA has superior advantages versus human execution:24x7 execution, eternal lifetime and scalability. Process automatization is per se not a brand-new technology, however due to notable progress in AI, which RPAleverages, it has become an own solution category. RPA enables algorithmic rules without being biased.

Ethical considerations intend to make AI-driven RPA more human and introduce morality into the machine learning. The Uber-Waymo trial made transparent how much AI development is influenced by human irrationality and irrational exuberances. It reveals a culture of agile software development, which prioritize releasing the latest software over testing and verification, and one that encourages shortcuts and irrationality. This also give proof that applying AI cannot ensure that irrational exuberances disappear. The reason for this irrational exuberance may have its roots in the exponential growth in computing and storage

technologies predicted by Gordon Moore five decades ago. This paper develops a concept how irrational exuberances with the business case of RPA can be prevented from happening. One general approach for solutioning of the issue is to increase transparency. The paper recommends applying technology to make data more accessible and more readable on the application of artificial intelligence. With the aim of application of “transparency technology XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language)” is incorporated. XBRL is part of the choice architecture on regulation by governments (Sunstein, 2013). XBRL is connected to a taxonomy. The paper develops a taxonomy for RPA to make application of artificial intelligence more transparent to the public and incorporates ethical considerations. As a business case the strongly growing RPA industry is selected. The paper focus on the way to enhance AI that aligns with human values. How can incentive be provided that AI systems themselves do not become potential objects of moral concern. The main outcome of the paper is that AI-enabled RPA reveal moral concerns however transparency technologies at the same time also offer way to mitigate such risks.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Artificial Intelligence Ethics Taxonomy - Robotic Process Automation (RPA) as Business Case (April 26, 2021). Special Issue ‘Artificial Intelligence& Ethics’ European Scientific Journal 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3834361 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3834361
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S Aguirre , A Rodriguez
Automation of a business process using robotic process automation (RPA): a case study
Appl Comput Sci Eng Commun Comput Inf Sci Posted: 2017
Crossref
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J R Phillips , S G Sutton
The impact of tagging qualitative financial information on investor decision making: Implications for XBRL
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 2 - 20 Posted: 2012
Crossref
A Asatiani , E Penttinen
Turning robotic process automation into commercial success-Case OpusCapita
Journal of Information Technology Teaching Cases , volume 6 , p. 67 - 74 Posted: 2016
Crossref
D Beerbaum , J M Puaschunder
A Behavioral Approach to Irrational Exuberances-An Artificial Intelligence Roboethics Taxonomy
Scientia Moralitas-International Journal of Multidisciplinary Research , volume 4 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Load more
13 Citations
Hakan Erdem , Tijen Över Özçelik
Digitizing Production Systems
, p. 233 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Lewin Schaudt , Dennis Schlegel
Eurasian Business and Economics Perspectives
, volume 25 , p. 83 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Monika Gatt
Sein und Zahl
, p. 159 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Monika Gatt
Sein und Zahl
, p. 209 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,125
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,949
RANK
14,109
13 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies