Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Emerging Technologies on Management Accounting

20 Pages Posted: 18 May 2021

Foad Zamani Dadaneh

Tarbiat Modares University, Faculty of Management & Economics

Date Written: April 28, 2021

Abstract

Management accounting is considered as a key component in current business units to achieve
organizational improvement in various areas such as: management and costs reduction,
strategic management, success in competitive global markets that require the use of up-to-date
technologies. This paper provides an overview of emerging technologies and their impact on
management accounting. This study shows that many emerging technologies, due to the
importance that management accountants play in the success of organizations, require more
research in a fast and timely time process. Many organizations need to implement business
intelligence and analytics technologies, machine learning algorithms, and the Internet of Things
to achieve more accurate predictions and support reporting and decision making. This research
includes reviewing, describing, analyzing, and summarizing some research in the field of
management accounting, which examines the impact of emerging technologies to enhance and
assist management accountants in guiding business units toward success in global business
markets

Keywords: Emerging Technologies, Management Accounting, Accounting, Machine Learning, Internet of Things

Suggested Citation:

Zamani Dadaneh, Foad, The Impact of Emerging Technologies on Management Accounting (April 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3835704 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3835704
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
G Andrei , R Galmeanu , F Radu
Managerial accounting -an essential component of the information system
Valahian Journal of Economic Studies , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 109 - 114 Posted: 2018
Crossref
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi , Z Yan
Impact of business analytics and enterprise systems on managerial accounting
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 25 , p. 29 - 44 Posted: 2017
Crossref
AACSB International Accounting Accreditation Standard A7: Information Technology Skills and Knowledge for Accounting Graduates: An Interpretation
AACSB International Accounting Accreditation Committee Posted: 2014
K Dewu , Y Barghathi
The accounting curriculum and the emergence of Big Data Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,747
RANK
36,494
1 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies