Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is there a Conflict between Principles-based Standard Setting and Structured Electronic Reporting with XBRL?

20 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Maciej Piechocki

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Christoph Weber

Johan Wolfgang Goethe University

Date Written: April 30, 2021

Abstract

National standardsetters and other observers continue to express concerns over a principles-based developed IFRS taxonomy. Based on the comments as part of the consultation phase on the taxonomy due process worries exist that to combine the taxonomy due process with the standard due process might negatively impact the principles-based nature of the IFRS standards. Recent comments to the IASB consultation on the “IFRS Taxonomy Due Process” contain more arguments why principles-based accounting and the IFRS taxonomy are perceived as a conceptual conflict. Although there is conceptual conflict between a principles-based accounting standard and the development of a taxonomy compared to a template based rule-based accounting framework, this appears in the case of the IFRS taxonomy as only a minor one. IFRS Taxonomy development faced this conflict for many years and is well aware of that. A common practice approach was applied, which also intended to overcome this conflict. XBRL has further attempted to bridge this conflict by offering multidimensional modeling of ac-counting standards and multi-extensible elements. This enables also more elements and more flexibility, which particularly a principles-based taxonomy requires.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk and Piechocki, Maciej and Weber, Christoph, Is there a Conflict between Principles-based Standard Setting and Structured Electronic Reporting with XBRL? (April 30, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3837235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3837235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
SOP 13-2 Performing Agreed-Upon Procedures Engagements -XBRL-Formatted Information
AICPA Posted: 2016
Crossref
M Alles , R Debreceny
The evolution and future of XBRL research
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 2 Posted: 2012
Crossref
M Alles , M Piechocki
Will XBRL improve corporate governance? A framework for enhancing governance decision making using interactive data
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 2 , p. 91 - 108 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Dirk Beerbaum Dr.
Towards an XBRL-Enabled Corporate Governance Reporting Taxonomy An Empirical Study of NYSE-Listed Financial Institutions
Pages: 376 Posted: 29 Oct 2016
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
10 Citations
Dirk Beerbaum Dr.
What Are the Reasons for Extensions – Development of an Extension Framework
19 Pages · Posted: 4 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 108
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dirk Beerbaum Dr. , Keith R. Duncan , Ray McNamara , Seppo Ikaheimo , David Derichs
Digitalization and Assurance of IFRS Financial Reports
38 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2021 · Last revised: 9 Feb 2022 · Downloads: 355
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dirk Beerbaum Dr. , David Derichs , Julia M. Puaschunder , Seppo Ikaheimo
A behavioral approach to voluntary change and innovation in external financial reporting: A case study of the restructuring of the Annual Report on Form 20-F and the Financial Report
46 Pages · Posted: 28 May 2021 · Downloads: 71
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dirk Beerbaum Dr.
Green Quadriga? - EU - Taxonomy, Non-FinancialReporting Directive, EBA Pillar III ESG risks and IFRS Foundation
28 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 643
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,468
RANK
178,213
10 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies