Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Biden’s Proposed Tax Increases in Simple and Multivariate Charts

171 Tax Notes Federal 703, 2021

21 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021 Last revised: 15 Jun 2021

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: May 3, 2021

Abstract

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the 2017 tax reform and simplification law, reduced individual and corporate federal income tax rates. President Biden has proposed to increase those rates. Corporate tax increases have been proposed to pay for a $2 trillion infrastructure plan, while individual tax increases are anticipated to pay for other spending programs.

If those tax increases take effect, New York City resident individuals may be subject to combined federal, state, and local marginal income tax rates of over 65%, while corporations and their shareholders subject to New York City taxes may have a combined marginal tax rate of over 75%. Some decedents’ estates would pay marginal income and estate taxes that add up to over 80%. The higher tax rates could encourage migration to lower-tax states, expatriations to lower-tax countries, greater personal consumption spending by the wealthy and elderly, and other taxpayer responses.

This article examines, using charts and figures for both readers and visual learners, the potential outcomes under President Biden’s current and future proposed tax increases for individuals and corporations. It focuses on the highest statutory marginal income tax rates and does not address phaseouts of tax benefits that may result in even higher marginal tax rates, including the approximately 65% marginal federal income tax rate for individuals subject to the section 199A passthrough business income deduction phaseouts.

This article also does not focus on other contemplated tax reforms such as Treasury’s proposal for Stopping Harmful Inversions and Ending Low-Tax Developments (SHIELD) and possible future initiatives that may include Stopping Worldwide Offshoring and Related Developments (SWORD), Bringing Uniformity to Complex and Kaleidoscopic Large Entity Returns (BUCKLER), Harmonizing Asset Mobility and Movement Enforcement and Repatriation (HAMMER), and High-Yield Discount Redemption Adjustment (HYDRA).

Keywords: Tax Reform and Simplification, Corporate Tax, Tax Increases, Capital Gains, Carried Interest, Estate Tax, Not Dying, Book Income Tax, GILTI, FDII

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Biden’s Proposed Tax Increases in Simple and Multivariate Charts (May 3, 2021). 171 Tax Notes Federal 703, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838950
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
United Kingdom (19 percent)
Poland
Crossref
Czech Republic
Crossref
Slovak Republic (21 percent)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
421
ABSTRACT VIEWS
945
RANK
158,949
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies