Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash Flow Statement as a Tool to Predict Financial Distress

8 Pages Posted: 5 May 2021

Syaiful Baharee Jaafar

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Hasmida Hassan

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Sarimah Ismail

Politeknik Tuanku Sultanah Bahiyah

Date Written: May 2, 2021

Abstract

The company should have a better cash flow for better growth. Without a better cash flow, it is possible to deal with a company with a financial problem and unable to pay off debt. Thus, the shareholder may consider either to remain or withdraw the investment from the company. The priority shareholder invests in the company to expand its wealth. Therefore, the company's performance is an indicator of shareholder wealth by paying dividends. The company should have effective planning and strategy to make sure company operations work smoothly. Cash flow analysis is a strategy to ensure the company does not run into financial distress in the future. Throughout the analysis, the corporation may take further action regarding the financial matter.

Keywords: Cash flow, Financials distress, Shareholder

JEL Classification: M40,M41

Suggested Citation:

Jaafar, Syaiful Baharee and Hassan, Hasmida and Ismail, Sarimah, Cash Flow Statement as a Tool to Predict Financial Distress (May 2, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3838158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3838158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
D Angela
Financial Distress: The Impacts of Profitability, Liquidity, Leverage, Firm Size, And Free Cash Flow
International Journal of Business, Economics and Law , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 25 Posted: 2020
J K Bae
Predicting financial distress of the South Korean manufacturing industries
Expert Systems with Applications , issue 10 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W H Beaver
Financial ratios as predictors of failure
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 71 - 111 Posted: 1966
Crossref
Gary C. Biddle , Mary L. Z. Ma , Frank M. Song
Accounting Conservatism and Bankruptcy Risk
Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Forthcoming Pages: 55 Posted: 6 Jun 2010 Last revised: 1 Jun 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
730
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,154
RANK
80,228
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies