Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Principles-Based Accounting – A Practical Enquire Into the Concept Based on Related Party Transactions Disclosures

20 Pages Posted: 7 May 2021

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: May 3, 2021

Abstract

The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are followed and adopted in more than 140 jurisdictions worldwide nowadays. This tremendous success for the last 20 years in terms of worldwide coverage is also attributable to the main principles-based character of IFRS. This also makes mainly a difference to its “sister” Accounting Standards United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US-GAAP), which is rule-based. All attempts that for U.S. companies it would be allowed to follow IFRS, did not succeed, given the litigious nature of the society of the United States to introduce a principle-based system has barriers, as fundamentals of the Case-laws would need to be restructured and changed. This research paper will look into the practical application and implication of accounting based on principles with the case of related part transactions disclosures. Many of the most well-known accounting scandals were associated to related party transactions (RPT) such as Enron, Wordcom or Parmalat. In general, there are two contrasting views on RPT: they represent either conflicts of interest as they can violate against management’s agency responsibility to shareholders or supervisory board purpose of monitoring. This view is the conflict of interest hypothesis and can be derived from agency theory by Berle and Means (1932) and Jensen and Meckling (1976). The alternative view is the efficient transactions hypothesis, which assumes that RPT efficiently fulfill underlying economic needs of the company, as they represent possibilities to achieve lower refinancing costs. This article will practically enquire into the concept of principles-based accounting. In this research paper, what implies principles-based accounting is inquired considering practical disclosure cases. Many accountants share the expectation that a standard should define disclosure rules, which companies should follow, however principles-based accounting is still after so many years new and challenging. Principles-based accounting requires the accountant to look into the standard and get an understanding what are the principles to comply with and to look through the underpinning of the standard. A lot of tools support the accountants to comprehend the meaning of the standard such as disclosure checklist or the IASB XBRL taxonomy. However, these can never fully substitute the prerequisite to fully comprehend and look into the essence of the principle laid down in the specific standard.

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Principles-Based Accounting – A Practical Enquire Into the Concept Based on Related Party Transactions Disclosures (May 3, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3839052 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3839052
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 Posted: 1970
Crossref
D Beerbaum
Benchmarking and best-practice analysis in Financial Accounting-the case of Related Party Disclosures
Journal of Applied Posted: 2020
J Hartley
Case study research Posted: 2004
Crossref
A Krimpmann
Principles of group accounting under IFRS Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Umesh S. Mahtani
Financial Distress Assessment Using Related Party Transactions
Indian Journal of Corporate Governance , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 5 Posted: 2022
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
337
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,719
RANK
204,172
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies