Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation Risk at European Banks: Empirical Evidence

28 Pages Posted: 12 May 2021

Mario Onorato

Promontory Financial Group

Fabio Battaglia

Promontory Financial Group

Orazio Lascala

Promontory Financial Group

Arber Ngjela

Promontory Financial Group

Date Written: April 1, 2021

Abstract

The risk that a financial institution will experience a loss because it did not accurately determine the fair value of the financial instruments on its balance sheet is known as Valuation Risk (VR). That risk is sometimes heightened because determining fair value is not always a simple or straightforward task. When market data is scarce or unavailable, or markets turn illiquid, banks tend to rely upon internally developed valuation models that use unobservable inputs, which may amplify VR.

VR has attracted growing supervisory attention. Several supervisory agencies internationally have voiced concern over banks holding vast amounts of instruments that are potentially exposed to valuation uncertainty and the potential knock-on effects this VR could have on the stability of the financial system.

Following up to our previous work discussing VR methodology and practice, this whitepaper seeks to expand the analysis by investigating European banks’ exposure to VR from a more quantitative perspective. To this end, we collected the evidence available from banks’ disclosures, looked for patterns, and drew as many sound conclusions as possible.

However, in doing so, we encountered a frustrating reality: inadequacies in available data make it difficult to build an accurate view of these risks.

We realized that the lack of data itself is an important lesson, as it informs us that crucial information is missing in banks’ disclosure. This paper delivers the results of the narrower analysis allowed by the limited data and delves into the implication of these constraints. The lack of data thwarts efforts to build an accurate view of the risks truly resting on financial institutions’ balance sheets. This is a serious matter. European banks hold amounts of assets and liabilities potentially exposed to VR that exceed their regulatory capital by many multiples. Even a relatively small unexpected shock or estimation error in instrument valuations could significantly impact banks’ capitalization and resilience.

In the debate over VR, we believe a joint action by supervisors and standard setters to deepen banks’ disclosure of their holdings of assets and liabilities potentially more exposed to VR would significantly increase transparency and risk-awareness in the financial industry. By increasing clarity and transparency around bank risks through increased disclosure, banks can enhance public trust and allow observers and analysts to better assess bank balance sheets, leading to share prices that more closely reflect bank risks.

Keywords: Valuation Risk, Market Risk, Fair Value, Prudent Value, Fair Value Hierarchy, IFRS 13, IFRS 9, Empirical Evidence, European Banks, market data

JEL Classification: G12, G18, G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Onorato, Mario and Battaglia, Fabio Maria and Lascala, Orazio and Ngjela, Arber, Valuation Risk at European Banks: Empirical Evidence (April 1, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3843099 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3843099
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Mario Onorato , Fabio Maria Battaglia , Orazio Lascala , Arber Ngjela
Valuation Risk: A Holistic Accounting and Prudential Approach
Pages: 36 Posted: 4 Dec 2020
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements -updated framework
BCBS Posted: 2018
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 Text with EEA relevance Posted: 2013
International Financial Reporting Standard #13 -Fair Value Measurement Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
805
RANK
472,944
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies