Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Income Tax Planning for Visual Artists, their Dealers, Investors and Collectors

TaxNotes, February 2021

San Diego Legal Studies Paper 21-020

41 Pages Posted: 19 May 2021 Last revised: 16 Jun 2021

Herbert I. Lazerow

University of San Diego School of Law

Date Written: May 19, 2021

Abstract

The visual artist, the art dealer, the art investor, and the art collector revolve around the same property. Be it painting, drawing, prints, sculpture, photographs, fabric or glass art, each raises tax problems for which advanced planning can be useful. Sometimes the tax problems of all four categories of people are the same, as in the necessity to prove a profit motive in order to deduct expenses; in other cases, such as on the sale or donation of an artwork, the results seem irrevocably different. This article will explore those similarities and differences, suggest steps advisors can take to maximize tax benefits, and occasionally question whether the similarities or the differences between taxpayers in those different categories, or the rules applied by IRS, make sense.

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Lazerow, Herbert I., Income Tax Planning for Visual Artists, their Dealers, Investors and Collectors (May 19, 2021). TaxNotes, February 2021, San Diego Legal Studies Paper 21-020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
INT. REV. CODE OF , volume 170 , issue 3 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Rev
67-246, 1967-2 Cum. Bull. 104 (donor who receives an event ticket for gift must reduce charitable deduction by fair market value of ticket)
INT. REV. CODE OF , volume 170 , issue f Posted: 1986
Crossref
For good discussions of the policy distinguishing the deductibility of charitable contributions of ordinary income property from from those of capital assets, see Joel S. Newman, Sales and Donations of Self-Created Art, Literature, and Music, 12 PITT. TAX REV. 57 (2015) and Alan L. Feld, Artists, Art Collectors and Income Tax , p. 174 - 189 Posted: 1980
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,412
RANK
294,906
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of San Diego Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies