Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Tax Policy and the Right to Know: Improving State Tax Policymaking By Enhancing Legislative and Public Access

99 Pages Posted: 26 May 2021

Richard Pomp

University of Connecticut - School of Law; Independent

Date Written: December 1993

Abstract

This report examines the need for disclosure of state corporate income tax data in order to facilitate more thoughtful tax policymaking as well as accountability and openness in government. While disclosure of federal income tax data has been resolved by the SEC’s required disclosures of public corporations, the only states that have laws mandating disclosure of information relating to their state’s income tax are Arkansas, West Virginia, and Massachusetts.

Firm-specific disclosure of corporate tax information at the state level is necessary for informed tax policy, essential to public understanding of corporate tax reform issues, and will complement SEC mandated disclosures. Because of the large sums of money involved in corporate taxation, disclosure is necessary to analyze how the costs of government are distributed and which companies and industries bear the burden of the tax within each state. Public understanding is essential in order to affect economic reform in a democratic setting regardless of whether the policy is founded on sound theoretical reasoning and the public must know which corporations are receiving incentives in order to judge whether the benefits justify the foregone revenue. Firm-specific data, in particular, is necessary in order to get the benefits of disclosure. Compared with aggregate data, firm-specific information will allow tax policy judgements to be made that could not be made in the abstract, and will also facilitate inter and intra-industry comparisons.

Arguments against disclosure at the state level that firm-specific disclosure might reveal proprietary information, violate a corporation’s right to privacy, discourage filing of accurate tax returns, or even undercut a state’s business climate all fall short of rebutting the benefits that come from disclosure and are largely unremarkable arguments when viewed in comparison with the type of disclosure mandated by the SEC.

Keywords: Corporate tax, tax, tax policy, fiscal policy institute, state tax policymaking, public access, citizens for tax justice, corporate tax policy

JEL Classification: K34, K22, K00

Suggested Citation:

Pomp, Richard, Corporate Tax Policy and the Right to Know: Improving State Tax Policymaking By Enhancing Legislative and Public Access (December 1993). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3850965 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3850965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
213 References
Corporate Income Taxes in the Reagan Years
CTJ Posted: 1984
N Y Times
Posted: 1985-03-27
Crossref
For a fuller description of CTJ's work, see infra note 186 and accompanying text. For an example of the support of major sectors of the business community of the 1986 changes, see Statement of Harry Sullivan, on behalf of the Tax Reform Action Coalition (TRAC) before the Committee on Ways and Means, House of Representatives on The Impact
CTJ has been given credit for playing a key role in the passage of the 1986 Tax Reform Act. See, e.g., Birnbaum and Murray , volume 88 , p. 11 - 13 Posted: 1987-02-07
See infra note 184 and accompanying text
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
501
RANK
614,410
213 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies