Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Accounting and Tax Fraud Detection in the Nigerian Public Sector

Nosiri, H., Uwakwe, T.N. & Abiahu, M.F.C. (2021, January). Forensic accounting and tax fraud detection in the Nigerian public sector. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria.

18 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Hilary Nosiri

Gregory University Uturu - Department of Accountancy

Theresa Nnenna Uwakwe

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

Financial fraud had for long been seen as a menace that led to the collapse of many organizations in the world. The Federal Government in a bid to reduce the cases of financial fraud, established many anti-graft agencies but yet the efforts seemed not to have yielded any results. Recently, the Federal Government approved the establishment of a new anti-graft agency, “The Proceeds of Crime Recovery and Management Agency. This goes to buttress that the issue of financial fraud, tax fraud inclusive has overwhelmed the government. Forensic accounting has been conceived as one of the most effective ways of reducing cases of tax fraud in Nigeria. Forensic accounting and tax fraud in the public sector was examined. The results showed that forensic accounting reduces the occurrence of tax fraud in the public sector and recommended that forensic accounting should be adopted by the public sector to meet up with the demand of technology.

Keywords: Forensic Accounting, Tax Fraud Detection, Financial Fraud, Public Sector, Nigeria

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Nosiri, Hilary and Uwakwe, Theresa Nnenna, Forensic Accounting and Tax Fraud Detection in the Nigerian Public Sector (January 30, 2021). Nosiri, H., Uwakwe, T.N. & Abiahu, M.F.C. (2021, January). Forensic accounting and tax fraud detection in the Nigerian public sector. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3852045
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J F Gbegi , D O
Effect of tax avoidance and tax evasion on personal income Tax administration in Nigeria
American Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 125 - 134 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J K C Bahadur
Tax evasion in Nepal: An Inquiry
Pravaha Journal Posted: 2018
J E Baird , R C Zelin
An examination of the impact of obedience pressure on perceptions of fraudulent acts and the likelihood of committing occupational fraud
Journal of Forensic Studies in Accounting and Business , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2009
H L Bhartia
Public Finance Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
974
RANK
148,308
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies