Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Captive Insurance Timeline: The Tide Turns for Taxpayers

Tax Notes (March 19, 2015)

6 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2021

F. Hale Stewart

The Law Office of Hale Stewart

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

Date Written: May 19, 2015

Abstract

After several courts held for the IRS in captive insurance cases and denied the deductibility of premium payments, taxpayers started winning. This article discusses how those taxpayer victories validated captive insurance arrangements and showed that a diverse corporate structure could prevent application of the IRS's balance sheet theory.

Keywords: Taxation, Captive Insurance

Suggested Citation:

Stewart, Hale and Cantley, Beckett, The Captive Insurance Timeline: The Tide Turns for Taxpayers (May 19, 2015). Tax Notes (March 19, 2015), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3858878 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3858878
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
remove counsel before trial, but the motion was denied. Beech formed the captive after it lost the case and a $25 million judgment
Nathan B. Oman
Contracts and Markets: A Very Short Essay Without Footnotes
William & Mary Law School Research Paper No. 09-100 Pages: 17 Posted: 11 Jun 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
31
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies