Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examination of Interest Deduction Limit under the Ethiopian Corporate Tax System

IJCRT | Volume 8, Issue 9 September 2020 | ISSN: 2320-2882

21 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2021

Desalegn Deresso Disassa

Assosa University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

The use of third party and related party interest is one of the profit-shifting techniques available in international tax planning. The fluidity and fungibility of money make it a relatively simple exercise to adjust the mix of debt and equity in a controlled company. When the level of debt capital is much greater than the equity capital of the company thin capitalization occurs. Nowadays, thin capitalization is one of the major challenges to the corporate tax system of Ethiopia. Thin capitalization reduces government income from tax by increasing deductible interest paid or payable on the debt. To address this problem, Ethiopia has implemented tax rules restricting the
deductibility of interest payments. This article aims to qualitatively examine the interest deduction rules under the Ethiopian income tax regimes through a qualitative analysis of existing literatures and laws. To this end, the analysis starts unfolding the conceptual framework of interest deduction and its rules followed by an examination of interest deduction rules of Ethiopia. As the finding has revealed, the newly enacted federal income law has taken a big step in tightening the interest deduction rules through the adoption of debt-to-equity ratio and arm’s length approach to determine the maximum debt on which interest deductible. In doing so, the income tax rules of Ethiopia incorporated the indirect interest deduction rule which indirectly limits the amount interest on which is deduction is allowable. In addition to this, the withholding tax imposed on interest paid to non-resident and limit on maximum deductible interest rates are adopted as an interest deduction approach to supplement arm’s length and debt-to-equity ratio to protect tax base erosion. Despite these positive developments, the Ethiopian tax law has failed to recognize direct interest deduction rules which directly limit the maximum interest on which deduction is allowed. Nowadays, the interest stripping rule is widely appreciated as the modern and most effective approach that directly restricts interest deduction. So, the failure to introduce a direct interest deduction rule is one of the major defect interest deduction rules in Ethiopia. Besides, the income tax law has failed to limit the special debt-equity ratio that applies to financial institutions. Furthermore, the tax law has failed to set a maximum deductible rate that applies to financial institutions licensed to lend in Ethiopia. To fill these gaps and ensure efficient protection of the tax base against erosion by deduction of interest payment, the researcher called for a direct interest deduction rule. Besides, the researcher called for the introduction of the debt-equity ratio that applies to a financial institution and the maximum deductible interest rate concerning the interest payment to legitimate financial institutions.

Keywords: Thin Capitalization, Thin Capitalization Rules, Interest Deduction, and Income Tax

JEL Classification: NA

Suggested Citation:

Disassa, Desalegn Deresso, Examination of Interest Deduction Limit under the Ethiopian Corporate Tax System (2020). IJCRT | Volume 8, Issue 9 September 2020 | ISSN: 2320-2882, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3859126
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Oecd Secretariat
Crossref
Id
Michael Overesch , Georg Wamser
German Inbound Investment, Corporate Tax Planning, and Thin Capitalization Rules - a Difference-in-Differences Approach
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 06-075 Pages: 29 Posted: 16 Nov 2006 Last revised: 26 Aug 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stuart Webber
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,089
RANK
370,049
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

International Corporate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies