Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Section 265 Disallowance and the PPP Expense Nightmare

75 Tax Law. 37

43 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 31 Dec 2021

Andy Grewal

University of Iowa - College of Law

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

Through the CARES Act, Congress established a generous Paycheck Protection Program. Under that program, recipients would get loans which could easily qualify for tax-free forgiveness. As an added bonus, taxpayers would enjoy tax deductions when they spent the amounts they borrowed.

Or so it seemed. After the CARES Act passed, the IRS promptly issued a notice denying deductions for PPP expenses. Secretary Treasury Steven Mnuchin personally reviewed the matter and announced that the IRS’s position followed from “Tax 101.” Congress eventually stepped in and offered a narrow statutory clarification: PPP expenses would be deductible.

Unfortunately, Congress did not go far enough. The IRS, with the blessing of some courts, has long used an aggressive interpretation of Section 265(a) to deny deductions allegedly allocable to tax-exempt income.

This Article explains the conceptual problems with the IRS’s approach and argues that it should be abandoned. The Article also explains why Congress should remedy the IRS's error and explores alternative anti-abuse rules.

Keywords: Tax, 265, CARES Act, PPP

Suggested Citation:

Grewal, Amandeep S., Section 265 Disallowance and the PPP Expense Nightmare (June 7, 2021). 75 Tax Law. 37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3861535
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
TAX NOTES TODAY FED , volume 87 Posted: 2020-05-05
Chuck Sens , Richard E Grassley , Ron Neal , Wyden
Letter to Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin , volume 20 , p. 20R - 20 Posted: 2020-05-05
Ron Sen , Johnson , Opinion , Loan Ppp , Needs Forgiveness , Limits , St J Wall
Legislation: U.S. Chamber of Commerce Supports Deductibility of Business Expenses Paid with PPP Loan Proceeds, DAILY TAX REP. (BNA) Posted: 2020-04-22
Matthew A Morris
Does the Deductibility of Qualifying PPP Loan Expenses Violate 'Tax 101'?, 170 TAX NOTES FED Posted: 2021-01-25
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
854
RANK
416,133
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Iowa College of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies