Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Calculating Conservation Easement Settlement Initiative Benefits

Tax Notes (Sept. 14, 2020)

8 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2021

Beckett Cantley

Northeastern University

Geoffrey Dietrich

Cantley Dietrich LLC

Date Written: September 14, 2020

Abstract

Following its recent success against syndicated conservation easements (“SCEs”), the IRS announced a Settlement Initiative (“SI”) on June 25, 2020 to “bring finality” to taxpayers battling the IRS on SCE issues. The IRS has been suspicious of conservation easements since 2016, when it first designated SCE transactions as “listed transactions.” In 2019, the IRS announced a “significant increase in enforcement actions” related to SCE transactions as SCEs made the IRS’ “Dirty Dozen” list of tax scams. This increase in enforcement actions has primarily resulted in IRS victories in the Tax Court. Thus, the IRS announced the SI to leverage its favorable outcomes against the taxpayers. Some critics are skeptical of the SI, claiming that the IRS has only been winning SCE cases on technical grounds and that the IRS does not hold as strong of a position as it claims on the true issues surrounding SCEs.7 Accordingly, many suggest that few taxpayers will take part in the SI. However, the IRS urges taxpayers to take a “hard, realistic look at their cases” with independent counsel.

The settlement offer is time-limited and only offered to certain taxpayers with pending docketed Tax Court cases regarding SCE transactions. The IRS claims that there are about 80 relevant cases docketed. The full settlement offer will be sent out by mail to those eligible. However, the June announcement (IR-2020-130) outlines the “four key terms of the settlement offer.” The first two parts of this article examine the SI offer and consider how a participant who actually closes on the offer is affected. Specifically, Part I of this article provides an overview of the SI’s general terms and conditions the IRS requires to be met before an offer recipient can participate. Part II examines the applicable SI financial benefits and also puts into perspective any concessions a participant has to make. Part III concludes this article by calculating the financial results of different sample taxpayers including: (1) taxpayers who are never audited by the IRS; (2) taxpayers who accept and close on the offer; (3) taxpayers who decline the offer and continue litigation with the IRS. Ultimately, the goal of this article is to provide decision making context in preparation for potential future settlement initiatives.


Suggested Citation:

Cantley, Beckett and Dietrich, Geoffrey, Calculating Conservation Easement Settlement Initiative Benefits (September 14, 2020). Tax Notes (Sept. 14, 2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862076 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3862076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
See infra note 53
Kiva Dunes Conservation, LLC v. Comm'r, 97 T.C.M. (CCH) Posted: 2009
Crossref
Infra Part III(B , issue 1
Crossref
For example, those deeds that will lose in the Tax Court following Oakbrook Land Holdings, LLC, William Duane Horton, Tax Matters Partner, Petitioner v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
788
RANK
915,095
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies