Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust Planning and the Washington State Capital Gains Tax

Seattle University Law Review SUpra

27 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2021 Last revised: 16 Oct 2021

J. M. Coppieters

Eide Bailly LLP

Date Written: October 15, 2021

Abstract

On April 25, 2021, the Washington State Legislature enacted a new state capital gains tax. Before now, Washington state has been one of the few states that does not impose a tax on either income or capital gains. Because of limitations imposed by the Washington State Constitution, the legislature has been forced to characterize the tax as an excise tax, rather than treat it as an income tax as would the federal government and every other state. Based on the statute’s structure and its presentation as an excise tax, whether intentionally or unintentionally, the legislature appears to have excluded both the trustees and beneficiaries of non-grantor trusts from being subject to the tax. This Article reviews the difference between grantor and non-grantor trusts, examines the apparent discrepancy between the two under the statute, and explores tax strategies planners and clients might consider pursuing in the wake of the new tax.

Keywords: Washington, capital gains, income, tax, trust, grantor, estate planning

Suggested Citation:

Coppieters, Jadrian, Trust Planning and the Washington State Capital Gains Tax (October 15, 2021). Seattle University Law Review SUpra, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868404 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3868404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Bill History , Wash Legislature
Larry Brant
The Colorful and Continuing Journey of Senate Bill 5096-the New Washington State Capital Gains Tax, FOSTER GARVEY Posted: 2021-05-07
Capital Gains Tax Act, ch. 196
Wash. Sess. Laws , volume 4 , issue 10 Posted: 1229
Capital Gains Tax Act, ch. 196
Wash. Sess. Laws , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,996
RANK
160,765
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies