Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sourcing Cloud Transactions Economically - The Right Way

Tax Notes International, June 7, 2021, p. 1351

9 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2021

Jeffery M. Kadet

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: June 7, 2021

Abstract

This article makes the case that the sourcing of cloud services income, when earned by a multinational group, should be determined on a “look-through or unitary” approach. Such an approach would include in the source computation the relevant activities of all group members whose activities contributed to the cloud services provided to customers.

This is in contrast to the current regulatory approach that takes into account only the relevant activities of the one group member entity that recorded the cloud services income from its customers.

A "unitary" approach is necessary because the current approach (which has been in place for many decades) has facilitated multinational groups intentionally crafting their structures to achieve a specific tax-motivated result within each group member. A sourcing result that will truly reflect the group’s business can only be achieved by applying the facts and circumstances approach to sourcing on a unitary basis.

The article includes an example of how the current approach distorts the sourcing of cloud services income.

Keywords: Sourcing of income, international taxation, profit-shifting structures, cloud services, partnership, effectively connected income,

JEL Classification: H21, H25, K34, E62

Suggested Citation:

Kadet, Jeffery M., Sourcing Cloud Transactions Economically - The Right Way (June 7, 2021). Tax Notes International, June 7, 2021, p. 1351, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880006
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
785,592
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies