Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Accrual Accounting Implementation in Cianjur Regency: An Empirical Investigation

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2020

7 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2021

Aditya Wira Dianto

Universitas Pembangunan Nasional Veteran Jakarta

Khoirul Aswar

Universiti Utara Malaysia - Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz School of Accountancy

Date Written: March 18, 2020

Abstract

Purpose: This research aimed to analyse the effect of top management support, training and communication on the implementation of accrual accounting.

Design/methodology/approach: The hypotheses of the study were tested using the survey data from 63 working unit in Cianjur Regency. The instrument for content and construct validity and reliability was tested. Then, the hypotheses were tested using Structure Equation Modelling (SEM) by SmartPLS 3.0.

Finding: This study found that top management support and training have significant relationship with implementation of accrual accounting. Meanwhile, communication has no significant relationship with implementation of accrual accounting.

Research limitations/implications: This study contributes to provide input into the adoption of Government Regulation No. 71 of 2010 in order to apply the rule of accrual accounting to the fullest, and to minimize errors in financial reporting with the identification of possible obstacles faced in implementing accrual accounting. This study recommended that, more factors such as consultant support, education level and project management support are needed to complement and improve financial reporting with implementation of accrual accounting.

Originality/value: To the best of the researcher's knowledge, no study of Cianjur Regency has tested the impact of factor such as top management support, training and communication on implementation of accrual accounting.

Keywords: Implementation of Accrual Accounting, Training, Top Management Support, Communication

JEL Classification: I28, M15, M48

Suggested Citation:

Dianto, Aditya Wira and Aswar, Khoirul, Assessing Accrual Accounting Implementation in Cianjur Regency: An Empirical Investigation (March 18, 2020). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3880402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J K Agyemang
Factors affecting the implementation of accrual-based international public sector accounting standards (AIPSAS) in Ghana
Texila International Journal of Management , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2017
Crossref
T N Arih , Rahayu , A Nurbaiti
Analisa Faktor-Faktor Yang Mempengaruhi Implementasi Standar Akuntansi Pemerintahan Berbasis Akrual Pada Pemerintah Kota Bandung
Jurnal Manajemen Indonesia , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 78 Posted: 2017
K Aswar , S Z Saidin
Accrual accounting adoption in Java Municipalities: An empirical investigation
International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 24 - 30 Posted: 2018
K Aswar , S Z Saidin
The influencing factors on the level of accrual accounting adoption: A conceptual approach
Romanian Economic and Business Review , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 30 - 36 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
601
RANK
724,701
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies