Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Practices for Agri-Commodity Derivatives between India and South Africa

International Academic Journal of Accounting and Financial Management 2018

12 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2021 Last revised: 23 Sep 2021

Preetham D

Maharanis women's commerce and Management College Mysore

B. Mahadevappa

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce

Date Written: July 20, 2018

Abstract

Developing the comprehensive accounting for the derivatives has become a challenge for all the accounting bodies around the world. In India government has taken several initiatives to bring Agri- Commodity derivatives trading into main stream, so that it can solve the problems such as price fluctuation, price manipulation and ineffective price discovery which are the major treats to the Indian economy that to the farmers. Hence in this study Indian accounting standards are compared with international Financial Reporting Standards for the derivatives accounting. For this sample of three companies from each country are selected with basic criteria has the companies must use. Agri-Commodity derivatives in their risk management parties. Independent samples t-test has been used to analysis the collected date. The results of the study reveal low level of derivatives reporting among these countries.

Keywords: Agri-Commodity Derivatives, IFRS, Indian GAAP, India, South Africa

JEL Classification: M00, M10

Suggested Citation:

D, Preetham and Mahadevappa, B., Accounting Practices for Agri-Commodity Derivatives between India and South Africa (July 20, 2018). International Academic Journal of Accounting and Financial Management 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3890212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Gunther Gebhardt , Rolf Reichardt , Carten Wittenbrink
Accounting for Financial Instrument in the Banking industry : Conclusions from a Simulation Model
CFS Working Paper , issue 21 Posted: 2003
Patricia Teixeira , Lopes
Accounting for Electricity Derivatives Under 39
Journal of Derivatives & Hedge Funds , volume 13 , p. 233 - 246 Posted: 2007
Angela L J Hwang
Comparative Analysis of Accounting Treatments for Derivatives
Journal of Accounting Education Posted: 2001
Jiri Strouhal , Carmen G Bonaci , Dumitru Matis
Accounting for Derivatives: Hedging or Trading
Wseas Transactions on Business and Economics , volume 7 , issue 3 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
387
RANK
864,731
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies