Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Uk's Framework Approach to Auditor Independence and the Commercialization of the Accounting Profession

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Vol. 16, No. 2, May 2003

Cass Business School Research Paper

56 Pages Posted: 19 May 2003

David B. Citron

City University London - The Business School

Abstract

This paper examines how the UK Chartered Accountants Joint Ethics Committee's (CAJEC) 1996 Statement Objectivity, Integrity and Independence, which was developed at a time of mounting levels of criticism of the auditing profession, provides legitimization for the accounting profession's increased commercial activities, particularly in the area of other business services. Parallel with a major shift in the nature of the activities of the professional firm, this ethics Statement gives expression to changes in the profession's concept of independence. It adopts a more accommodating method for evaluating the adequacy of an auditor's independence, introducing a 'framework' approach in contrast with its predecessor's 'rule book' approach. Both the Statement and respondents to the preceding Consultation Papers support the flexible system afforded by the framework in terms of promoting clients' economic interests. Moreover CAJEC's proposals did not include any initiatives to promote audit firm transparency which might have enabled external monitoring of compliance with the framework. Thus, while the Statement does place some limitations on the flexibility of the framework and retains the distinction between audit and other activities, it ultimately embodies a notion of independence that is at one with the interests of the profession.

Keywords: auditor independence, ethics code, accounting profession

JEL Classification: M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Citron, David B., The Uk's Framework Approach to Auditor Independence and the Commercialization of the Accounting Profession. Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal, Vol. 16, No. 2, May 2003, Cass Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=390480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.390480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
A Abbott
Professional ethics
American Journal of Sociology , volume 88 , issue 5 , p. 855 - 885 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A Abbott
The System of Professions
Top 40 firms Posted: 1988
Accountancy
Labour party policy in the making? Posted: 1991-06
Accountancy
Members will laugh' at Fabian four
Ethics rules to be tightened Posted: 1991-09
Load more
4 Citations
Rupert Macey-Dare
Accounting System Upgrade Risk
4 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2007 · Last revised: 1 Sep 2014 · Downloads: 408
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Teerooven Soobaroyen , Chelven Chengabroyan
Auditors' Perceptions of Time Budget Pressure, Premature Sign Offs and Under-Reporting of Chargeable Time: Evidence from a Developing Country
International Journal of Auditing, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 201-218, November 2006 · 18 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2007 · Downloads: 15
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ariela Caglio , Mara Cameran
Is it Shameful to Be an Accountant? GenMe Perception(S) of Accountants' Ethics
Abacus, Vol. 53, Issue 1, pp. 1-27, 2017 · 27 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2017 · Downloads: 15
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christian Friedrich , Reiner Quick
Do Non-audit Service Failures Impair Auditor Reputation? An Analysis of Multiple Scandals Surrounding KPMG Advisory Services in Germany
Critical Perspectives on Accouting, Forthcoming · 73 Pages · Posted: 31 Dec 2019 · Last revised: 3 Jan 2023 · Downloads: 325
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
813
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,424
RANK
69,547
4 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies