Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Microsoft Purchase of LinkedIn: Accounting Changes After Acquisitions (version 1; a second co-authored version with Dan Tinkelman will be posted soon)

21 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2021 Last revised: 17 Apr 2023

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: May 25, 2018

Abstract

This case illustrates that when one company acquires another, the acquirer includes the revenues of the acquiree beginning on the date the acquisition closes. The accounting treatment is prospective, rather than retrospective; meaning that the acquirer does not adjust previous years as if the acquired company had always been a part of the acquirer. Only in the footnotes is it required to disclose two years of pro-forma retrospective revenues and earnings as if the acquisition occurred at the beginning of the previous year. We study Microsoft’s purchase of LinkedIn in December 2016. We analyze Microsoft’s footnotes and calculate its standalone organic revenue growth versus growth from the LinkedIn acquisition. We also research Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 250 “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections” and ASC 805 “Business Combinations” and learn that a “change in reporting entity” is not the same as an acquisition.

Keywords: Accounting changes, pro-forma, acquisitions, prospective, retrospective, organic growth

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Fischer, Dov, Microsoft Purchase of LinkedIn: Accounting Changes After Acquisitions (version 1; a second co-authored version with Dan Tinkelman will be posted soon) (May 25, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3909416 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3909416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Distinguish between "changes in accounting entity
which are covered in ASC 250, and accounting changes after acquisitions, which are covered in ASC 805 "business combinations
On what date did Microsoft begin to include LinkedIn revenue on its income statement?
Prepare a one-paragraph argument for the FASB for an alternative accounting rule -that Microsoft should retroactive restate all of its previous financial results to include LinkedIn as far back as possible. In answering this question, you may want to ask yourself what is the objective of financial reporting
Does Microsoft directly disclose LinkedIn revenue for 2016? Explain the steps needed to deduce LinkedIn's revenue from the Microsoft disclosures. Please give actual numbers to illustrate your answer
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
732
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,488
RANK
79,936
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies