Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Financial Analysis of Disguised Sales of Partnership Interests

Tax Notes Federal,Vol. 172, p. 381, (July 2021)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 681

20 Pages Posted: 25 Aug 2021

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Douglas L. Longhofer

University of Central Missouri

Martin E. Connor Jr.

Debevoise & Plimpton LLP

Nastassia Shcherbatsevich

Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP

Date Written: August 23, 2021

Abstract

This article examines the issues that arise in identifying disguised sales of partnership interests, and it explores whether a financial analysis can help in distinguishing disguised sales from recapitalizations. The article examines law that considers both property and financial transactions that raise disguised-sale considerations. It shows that when property is part of a transaction existing case law and rulings provide helpful guidance for determining whether the transaction might be recast as a disguised sale of a partnership interest. The article also shows that, by contrast, existing authority proves mostly unhelpful in determining whether finance transactions are disguised sales of a partnership interest. The article presents a financial analysis that illustrates the difficulty of identifying disguised sales but also shows how a sale of an interest differs from a recapitalization. The analysis provides a general framework for considering the question of disguised sales of partnership interests, but it does not appear to provide a definitive model for analyzing all financing transactions that might be recast as disguised sales of interests in partnerships.

Keywords: section 1031, drop-and-swap, disguised sale of partnership interest

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T. and Longhofer, Douglas L. and Connor Jr., Martin E. and Shcherbatsevich, Nastassia, A Financial Analysis of Disguised Sales of Partnership Interests (August 23, 2021). Tax Notes Federal,Vol. 172, p. 381, (July 2021), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 681, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3910050
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
356
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,608
RANK
192,204
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies