Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Analysis of Hilton Holdings

30 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2021

Mouza Alameri

Abu Dhabi University - College of Business Administration

Fatima Alshamsi

Abu Dhabi University

Saeed Alsaedi

Abu Dhabi University

Ahmed Alkaabi

Abu Dhabi University

Rouda Alamri

Abu Dhabi University

Mariam Alshamsi

Abu Dhabi University

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Date Written: September 25, 2021

Abstract

The Financial analysis of Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. has been conducted. The data was taken for the five years including 2021, 2020, 2019, 2018, and 2017. The data were gathered from the financial statements of the company. After gathering the data, methodology was set for the financial analysis of Hilton. The financial analysis was done due to ratios including Liquidity ratios, Leverage Ratios for Hilton, Asset Management (AM) Ratios, Profitability Ratios, and Market Value Measures. The status was then analyzed after the result of each ratio for the five years. It showed the performance of the company and its financial status in comparison with the other hotels in the market. There were loopholes found which need to be overcome soon by Hilton to stabilize the revenue. The impacts of COVID-19 on the Hilton and other hotel industries were discussed and suggestions were given for the stability of the economy through different surveys conducted in the world. Hilton shows a loss in recent years, but this loss was due to some circumstances, which compelled the company to incur a loss. The status of the company is improving, and it will grow again because the reasons due to which the company incurred a loss are solving. The company has good prospects therefore the investor's recommendations mentioned that the investor should invest in the industry because it will again increase the share price in near future.

Suggested Citation:

Alameri, Mouza and Alshamsi, Fatima and Alsaedi, Saeed and Alkaabi, Ahmed and Alamri, Rouda and Alshamsi, Mariam and Nobanee, Haitham, Financial Analysis of Hilton Holdings (September 25, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3930493 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3930493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Survey of hotels on the financial crisis
AHLA Posted: 2020
Al Ghanem , K Al Qubaisi , N Al Zaabi , H Al Dhahmani , L Al Naqbi , A Al Dhanhani , H Al Shamisi , F Nobanee , H
Financial Analysis of AstraZeneca. SSRN Electronic Journal. Published Posted: 2021
S Alkhyeli , F Abdulla , A Alshehhi , N Aldhaheri , M Alhosani , A Alsereidi , M Breiki , H Nobanee
Financial Analysis and Performance Evaluation of Pfizer
SSRN Electronic Journal. Published Posted: 2021
M S Almansoori , M H Almansoori , M M Almansoori , A R Almansoori , A A Alhammadi , S M Alnuaimi , H Nobanee
Financial Analysis of ADNOC
SSRN Electronic Journal. Published Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,345
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,915
RANK
34,095
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies