Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estate and Gift Tax Valuation of Cannabis Business Interests

2022 Trusts & Estates 22

11 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2022

Jonathan G. Blattmachr

Milbank LLP

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Mitchell M. Gans

Hofstra University - School of Law

Date Written: October 5, 2021

Abstract

Approximately half of all American adults have used cannabis at some point in their lives. Whether or not any one estate planning professional falls into this particular demographic, it is crucial for all advisors understand the estate planning uncertainties and complexities facing owners of legal cannabis businesses. Eighteen states have legalized cannabis for adult recreational use; thirty-seven states have legalized the medicinal use of cannabis (often in conjunction with permitting adult recreational uses). Experts estimate that legal recreational sales in the United States were $18.9 billion in 2021 and that, by 2026, sales in the United States alone will reach $41.8 billion or more. As the legal cannabis industry expands, estate planners are more likely to have clients who own interests in legal cannabis businesses. After providing a brief introduction to the important federal banking and income tax limitations on cannabis businesses, this article turns to the more complex—and unpredictable—issue of how interests in legal cannabis businesses should be valued for estate and gift tax purposes.

One’s immediate reaction might be that familiar valuation rules should apply. For federal gift and estate tax purposes, the Treasury Regulations consider what a hypothetical buyer and seller would agree is an appropriate sales price. But when, as a matter of federal law, the asset cannot be legally sold, these rules apply uneasily. In the case of a legal cannabis businesses, one might base valuation on the price being paid by market participants, i.e., buyers and sellers in the state where the business is located, or, in the case of interests in multi-state operators, the prices paid for those interests on the Canadian stock exchanges or in the secondary over-the-counter market in the United States. A taxpayer might even argue for a significant valuation discount to reflect the difficulties in operating such a business, given that cannabis is a Schedule I drug for federal purposes and is restricted from taking ordinary and necessary business expense deduction IRC Section 280E. Yet with illegal or “illicit” assets, case law and IRS guidance suggest that the IRS has broad discretion in valuating such assets. Thus, even if a cannabis business is legal for state law purposes, it is difficult to predict with certainty how the IRS would seek to value the assets. In many ways, conventional valuation principles are fundamentally at odds with any system for valuing assets that are illegal for federal purposes.


Keywords: cannabis, marijuana, gift, estate, tax, valuation

JEL Classification: K1

Suggested Citation:

Blattmachr, Jonathan G. and Crawford, Bridget J. and Gans, Mitchell M., Estate and Gift Tax Valuation of Cannabis Business Interests (October 5, 2021). 2022 Trusts & Estates 22, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3936143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
See Robert , Hart
Record High Getting High-Nearly Half of Americans Have Tried Marijuana, Poll Finds
getting-high---nearly-half-ofamericans-have-tried-marijuana-poll-finds/?sh=4d5988155210 (reporting results of Gallup poll showing that 49% of American adults "said they've tried marijuana Posted: 2021-08-17
See Jeremy , Berke , Shayanne Gal , Jesse Yeji , Lee
legal-marijuana-states-2018-1?r=US&IR=T (listing states and providing graphic of where cannabis is legal for adult recreational purposes
Business Insider Posted: 2021-07-09
E G See , A Wayne , Logan
After the Cheering Stopped: Decriminalization and Legalism's Limits
24 Cornell J.L. & Pub. Pol'y 319 , p. 323 - 327 Posted: 2014
Sections 812(c)(10) (including "marihuana" on the list of Schedule I controlled substances), 812(b)(1) (defining as Schedule I substances those drugs having "high potential for abuse" and "no currently accepted medical use treatment in the United States"), 841 (prohibiting certain actions and activities with respect to controlled substances)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
999
RANK
451,566
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies