Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Was IFRS 16 Leases Necessary?

Posted: 11 Oct 2021

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Date Written: October 10, 2021

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of IFRS 16 Leases. Using the footnote data provided in IFRS 16 I estimate the financial statement impact of operating lease accounting “as if” IAS 17 Leases was applied. This enables me to estimate the financial statement impact of IFRS 16. Assets increase by 19.6%, liabilities by 50.7% and equity by 4.7%. The impact on six common financial ratios is also estimated. The increase in leverage is anticipated. The unanticipated effects are a reduction in solvency (current ratio), the impact on alternative performance measures such as EBIT and EBITDA, and the impact on cash flow statement components. Using the IAS 17 operating lease estimates, I then use ‘constructive lease capitalisation’ to estimate the financial lease estimates ‘as if’ IAS 17 was applied. I then compare these estimates with IFRS 16 results. I conclude that the constructive lease capitalisation is a poor process for estimating the results of IFRS 16. I then discuss whether IFRS 16 is a ‘good’ accounting standard.

Keywords: Lease accounting, IFRS 16, constructive capitalisation, financial analysis

JEL Classification: M410

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E., Was IFRS 16 Leases Necessary? (October 10, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3939896
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies