Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unaccounted-For Accounting Standards: The SEC’s Unconstitutional Delegation to FASB

51 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2021

Gregory Wheeler

Independent

Date Written: March 20, 2021

Abstract

While federal administrative agencies are authorized to coordinate with private entities, it is outside their authorization to delegate their authority to the private entity. Accounting standards, which affect how publicly traded companies disclose their financial information to stockholders and other stakeholders, should be set by the Securities Exchange Commission. Instead, the SEC has delegated this task to a private body, the Financial Accounting Standards Board. This paper considers how this delegation has occurred, the problems that this causes, and what corrective measures may be made to address the unconstitutional subdelegation.

Keywords: Constitutional Law, SEC, FASB, Accounting Standards, FAS157

Suggested Citation:

Wheeler, Gregory, Unaccounted-For Accounting Standards: The SEC’s Unconstitutional Delegation to FASB (March 20, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3947976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3947976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
705
RANK
524,740
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies