Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bittker's Pendulum and the Taxation of Multinationals

Tax Notes International, Volume 104, November 1, 2021

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 22-03

20 Pages Posted: 28 Nov 2021 Last revised: 7 Mar 2022

Daniel Shaviro

New York University School of Law

Date Written: November 1, 2021

Abstract

Recent calls for increased entity-level corporate income taxation of multinationals, on both a source and a residence basis, have a distinctly back-to-the-future cast. At least as to the bottom line, they have far more in common with 1986-era thinking than with which has often prevailed in more recent decades. However, their intellectual basis has substantially changed, reflecting the evolution of economic thinking to reflect twenty-first century trends.

This historical back-and-forth has ample parallels in other areas, and precedents from earlier eras. In corporate and international tax policy, as well with regard to taxing capital income and addressing high-end inequality more generally, the rise of standard neoclassical Econ 101 precepts that, in the preceding period, had been underappreciated was succeeded by a growing awareness of what those precepts leave out. Meanwhile, the popular back-and-forth has reflected fluctuating public perceptions regarding, not just the importance of distributional issues, but also unfettered free market capitalism’s merits and performance.

Keywords: corporate income taxation, tax competition, tax history

JEL Classification: H20, H25, B20

Suggested Citation:

Shaviro, Daniel, Bittker's Pendulum and the Taxation of Multinationals (November 1, 2021). Tax Notes International, Volume 104, November 1, 2021, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 22-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3963998
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
337,844
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies