Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Modest Proposed Simplification of the Passthrough Deduction

173 Tax Notes Federal 331 (2021)

5 Pages Posted: 13 Jan 2022 Last revised: 13 Apr 2023

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: October 18, 2021

Abstract

The tax reform and simplification law known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted the section 199A passthrough business income deduction, which generally provides a 20 percent deduction for some types of income from 2018 through 2025. Owners of sole proprietorships, partnerships, S corporations, and real estate investment trusts can claim the deduction and obtain billions of dollars in tax relief each year, subject to a few limitations. Treasury and the IRS have said that the section 199A regulations can be understood with only a few hours of work.

One admitted area of complexity is that the section 199A rules can apply separately to each distinct trade or business, and it is sometimes difficult to determine when trades or businesses can be aggregated. Two grocery stores may be treated as two separate businesses subject to separate computational requirements for each store.

An easy path of regulatory simplification is to import the trade or business aggregation rules that are found in the more recent regulations that apply to tax-exempt organizations’ unrelated trades or businesses. Tax-exempt organizations can aggregate their trades or businesses as long as they have the same two-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) sector code. When a law school can aggregate its investments in a yacht dealership and a liquor store because they are both in NAICS sector code 44 (retail trade), Treasury and the IRS should allow the country’s small business owners to do a similar level of aggregation as well.

This paper has been cited by the United States Senate in Senate Print 117-24, Tax Expenditures, at 561 (2022).

Keywords: 199A, passthrough deduction, 512(a)(6), non-profits, deductions, aggregation, trailer parks, law professors, think tanks

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, A Modest Proposed Simplification of the Passthrough Deduction (October 18, 2021). 173 Tax Notes Federal 331 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3975456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
424
RANK
444,235
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies