Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ETFs Use Section 852(b)(6) for Tax Avoidance, Not Just Tax Deferral: So Why Is This Loophole Still Open?

The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 75, No. 3, Spring 2022, pp 489-600

112 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2021 Last revised: 24 May 2022

Steven Z. Hodaszy

Robert Morris University

Date Written: May 5, 2022

Abstract

Exchange traded funds (ETFs) exploit section 852(b)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code to avoid taxation of their realized investment gains at either the entity level or the shareholder level. The provision prevents a regulated investment company from having to recognize gain on distributions of property to redeeming shareholders, and ETFs dispose of virtually all of their appreciated portfolio securities in transactions that ostensibly come within the rule’s ambit. The ETF industry contends that section 852(b)(6) simply allows investors to defer tax on ETF investment gains, and that ETF shareholders ultimately pay tax on those gains when they sell their shares. The industry argues that ETF shareholders’ ability to defer taxation of such gains makes ETFs more “tax efficient” than traditional mutual funds and helps to increase shareholders’ return on investment.

This is a follow-up on the author’s 2017 article in The Tax Lawyer on ETF taxation. In response to a Senator’s recent reform proposal and other developments, this Article offers a number of contributions on the topic that were not in the earlier article. Perhaps most significantly, this Article explains in detail why the ETF industry’s defense of its tax break under section 852(b)(6) is specious. In many circumstances, when an investor disposes of her ETF shares, she is not taxed on her entire proportionate “slice” of the ETF’s previously realized but unrecognized gains. In such cases, some or all of those gains escape taxation forever. Contrary to industry claims, section 852(b)(6) often results in more than the mere deferral of tax on ETF investment gains. Many times, as this Article describes, section 852(b)(6) enables both ETFs and their shareholders to avoid taxation of their gains permanently.

The ETF tax break under section 852(b)(6) raises several serious policy concerns: First, it costs the Treasury tens of billions of dollars in forgone tax revenue each year. Second, by treating ETF shareholders more favorably than mutual fund shareholders, it creates inequitable disparities in how different taxpayers with substantively equivalent investments are taxed. Third, it exacerbates problems inherent in the U.S. income tax’s realization rule to contribute to income and wealth inequality. As high-net-worth investors have flocked from traditional mutual funds to ETFs to enjoy the “tax efficiency” that the ETF industry so proudly touts, those tax advantages have redounded increasingly to the affluent. Simply put, section 852(b)(6) provides an unwarranted tax windfall that enables already-wealthy ETF shareholders to amass further wealth more quickly through greater compounding of their investment gains.

In September 2021, Senate Finance Committee Chair Ron Wyden proposed a complete repeal of section 852(b)(6). Though tempting in its simplicity, that approach is ultimately flawed. Securities regulators consider section 852(b)(6) to be necessary to the functioning of a price-arbitrage mechanism that maintains an ETF’s share price at parity with the value of the ETF’s investment portfolio. Assuming that Congress does not want to render ETFs inviable as pooled investment vehicles, any reform to ETF taxation must also ensure that this arbitrage mechanism—and, thus, section 852(b)(6)’s nonrecognition rule—remains intact.

The aims of this Article are (1) to elucidate the concerns arising from ETFs’ exploitation of section 852(b)(6), (2) to urge policymakers finally to address those concerns, and (3) to offer workable solutions to the problem of ETF tax avoidance.

©2022. Published in The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 75, No. 3, Spring 2022, by the American Bar Association. Reproduced with permission. All rights reserved. This information or any portion thereof may not be copied or disseminated in any form or by any means or stored in an electronic database or retrieval system without the express written consent of the American Bar Association or the copyright holder.


Keywords: ETFs, section 852(b)(6), tax avoidance, heartbeat trades, wealth gap

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hodaszy, Steven Z., ETFs Use Section 852(b)(6) for Tax Avoidance, Not Just Tax Deferral: So Why Is This Loophole Still Open? (May 5, 2022). The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 75, No. 3, Spring 2022, pp 489-600, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3977836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3977836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
ETF investors often do not ultimately pay tax on their share of an ETF's redemption-related gains. As explained in Part V below, there are many cases in which an ETF investor is never taxed at all-or is taxed only partially-on her proportionate received by the RIC itself. See I.R.C. § § 1(h)(11)(D)(iii), 854(b)(1)(B). Thus, such dividends are generally taxed to individual RIC shareholders at their ordinary marginal federal income tax rates. See Hodaszy, supra note 6, at 557 n.78 and accompanying text (discussing same)
See infra Parts VII.C.3 and VII.C.4
Brunson
Id
247 See infra text accompanying notes , p. 251 - 254
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
525
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,399
RANK
122,264
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies