Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Battling Uphill Against the Assignment of Income Doctrine

Tax Notes Federal, November 29, 2021, p. 1253

9 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2021

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Kathrin Gardhouse

Blue J Legal

Date Written: November 29, 2021

Abstract

We examine a Tax Court case that our machine-learning model suggests was correctly decided (with more than 95 percent confidence). Ernest S. Ryder & Associates Inc. v. Commissioner, T.C. Memo. 2021-88, has received significant attention from the tax community. It involved tax avoidance schemes marketed by the law firm Ernest S. Ryder & Associates Inc. (R&A) that produced more than $31 million in revenue between 2003 and 2011 and for which the firm reported zero taxable income. The IRS unmasked more than 1,000 corporate entities that R&A’s owner, Ernest S. Ryder, had created and into which he funnelled the money. By exposing the functions that these entities performed, the IRS played the most difficult role in the case. Yet, there are deeper lessons that can be drawn from the litigation by subjecting it to analysis using machine learning. We shine an algorithmic spotlight on the legal factors that determine the outcomes of assignment of income cases such as Ryder. For Ryder, the time for filing an appeal has elapsed and the matter is settled. Thus, we use it to examine the various factors that courts look to in this area and to show the effect those factors have in assignment of income cases. Equipped with our machine-learning module, we are able to highlight the fine line between legitimate tax planning and illegitimate tax avoidance in the context of the assignment of income doctrine.

Keywords: tax avoidance, assignment of income, machine learning

JEL Classification: H25

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Gardhouse, Kathrin, Battling Uphill Against the Assignment of Income Doctrine (November 29, 2021). Tax Notes Federal, November 29, 2021, p. 1253, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992924
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
411
RANK
889,370
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies