Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Electing Out of Subchapter K Under IRC § 761(a): Can Certain Limited Liability Companies and Limited Partnerships Become Eligible to Make the Election?

Mississippi Law Journal, Vol. 92, 601 (2023)

23 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022 Last revised: 17 Jan 2024

John C. Nelson, Jr.

Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell, LLP; University of Mississippi - School of Law

Date Written: January 21, 2022

Abstract

I.R.C. Section 761(a) allows certain unincorporated organizations to elect to be excluded from the application of Subchapter K, resulting in reduced reporting requirements for electing entities. However, clear guidance regarding this election is lacking, and the resultant ambiguity has given rise to longstanding uncertainty in determining whether limited liability companies and limited partnerships can become eligible to make the election. Aiming to provide more clarity, this Article begins by summarizing the statute itself, the regulations thereunder, and the relevant Tax Court cases and administrative guidance. Following that summary, this Article argues that limited liability companies and limited partnerships should be able to achieve section 761(a) election eligibility through proper drafting within the relevant entity’s operating agreement. The basis for this argument primarily derives from the plain language of the relevant statutes and regulations, the public responses to I.R.S. Notice 2004-53, and the resultant benefits to owners of such entities if allowed to make the election. This Article then provides sample operating agreement drafting language that may be sufficient in rendering a limited liability company or limited partnership eligible to make an election under section 761(a), followed by a discussion of the limited liability concerns that might result if such an entity were to make this election. The election provided under section 761(a) offers numerous benefits to electing parties; however, those benefits will never be fully realized until more clarity is reached in determining what entities can become eligible to make the election.

Keywords: Tax; IRC § 761; Limited Liability Company; Limited Partnership; Subchapter K

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, John, Electing Out of Subchapter K Under IRC § 761(a): Can Certain Limited Liability Companies and Limited Partnerships Become Eligible to Make the Election? (January 21, 2022). Mississippi Law Journal, Vol. 92, 601 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014620 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Sjostrom See
Each state has its own limited partnership statute based on some version of the [Revised] Uniform Limited Partnership Act, with the exception of the Louisiana statute , volume 28
R U L L C A 501
Am. L. Inst. & Unif. L. Comm'n Posted: 2013
R U L P A 701
Am. L. Inst. & Unif. L. Comm' Posted: 2013
E G See , Del Ann
A partnership interest is personal property. A partner has no interest in specific limited partnership property , volume 6 , p. 17 - 701
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
812
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,405
RANK
69,661
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies