Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Newspaper Closures and Bank Loan Contracts

HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

67 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2022 Last revised: 18 Aug 2025

Zhiming Ma

Peking University - Guanghua School of Management

Derrald Stice

The University of Hong Kong - School of Business; HKU Business School, The University of Hong Kong

Han Stice

George Mason University

Yue Zhang

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 19, 2023

Abstract

We examine changes in bank loan contracts after borrowers experience a nearby local newspaper closure. Compared to a sample of control firms, we find that the closure of a local newspaper leads to higher interest spreads for borrowers. The effect is stronger when the local newspaper is more important for information generation, when the borrower’s information environment is poor, when accounting quality is low, or when external monitoring is weak. We show that this effect is robust to different research design specifications, and that it is not related to deteriorating local economic conditions. Our findings suggest that local media still plays a significant role in the debt markets, even as society moves deeper into the internet era.

Keywords: Local Newspapers, Local Media, Bank Loans, Debt Contracting, Firm Monitoring, Accounting Quality

JEL Classification: G10, G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Ma, Zhiming and Stice, Derrald and Stice, Han and Zhang, Yue, Local Newspaper Closures and Bank Loan Contracts (December 19, 2023). HKU Jockey Club Enterprise Sustainability Global Research Institute - Archive, Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4014321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4014321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
M Ahn , M Drake , H Kyung , H Stice
The role of the business press in the pricing of analysts' recommendation revisions
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 341 - 392 Posted: 2019
K D Allee , R Cating , C Rawson
No news is bad news: local news intensity and firms' information environments
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2023
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
The Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968
M Barthel
Despite subscription surges for largest us newspapers, circulation and revenue fall for industry overall
Pew Research Center , volume 1 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
651
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,455
RANK
92,942
2 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies