Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments of the Afaanz Auditing and Assurance Standards Committee on Proposed International Standard on Auditing 600 (Ed 600)

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2021

Accounting and Finance. doi:10.1111/acfi.12783, 2021

Posted: 25 Jan 2022

Paul Coram

University of Adelaide - Business School; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Noel Harding

University of New South Wales (UNSW)

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Muhammad Jahanzeb Khan

Independent

Ashna Prasad

Monash University

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

The International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) issued for public comment Proposed International Standard on Auditing 600 (Revised) ‘Special Considerations' – Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors) (ED 600). The Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (AUASB) and New Zealand Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (NZAuASB) also called for comments. The Auditing and Assurance Standards Committee of AFAANZ prepared a submission, based on the findings reported in extant research, responding to a number of the questions asked by the IAASB (and AUASB/NZAuASB). This commentary presents the formal submission made to the IAASB (and AUASB/NZAuASB).

Suggested Citation:

Coram, Paul J. and Harding, Noel and Hay, David and Khan, Muhammad Jahanzeb and Prasad, Ashna, Comments of the Afaanz Auditing and Assurance Standards Committee on Proposed International Standard on Auditing 600 (Ed 600) (2021). The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, 2021, Accounting and Finance. doi:10.1111/acfi.12783, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4016832
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
278
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies