Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Confidence in a Pandemic: Students’ Self-efficacy when Volunteering in an Online Tax Clinic

New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 27(4): 279-307 (2021)

29 Pages Posted: 17 Feb 2022

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Date Written: December 13, 2021

Abstract

With the advent of COVID-19 restrictions, a student tax clinic had to transform itself from delivering face-to-face pro-bono tax assistance to a fully online environment. This transformation to online had a number of technical and legal issues to navigate, such as how to provide for adequate supervision by a registered tax agent of students’ assistance. While students appreciated the ability to continue their experience working at the tax clinic online, what did it mean in terms of their self-efficacy (confidence)? Particularly, with the online environment would students still have sufficient opportunities to develop their self-efficacy through mastering, modelling, social persuasion, and judgements of their own physiological states? This article describes how the tax clinic was able to operate fully online and will provide data concerning the development of students’ self-efficacy. To provide a comparison, data from prior cohorts who participated face-to-face will also be considered.

Keywords: WIL, self efficacy, online, COVID-19, tax

JEL Classification: K34, H20, I21

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett and Belle Isle, Melissa, Confidence in a Pandemic: Students’ Self-efficacy when Volunteering in an Online Tax Clinic (December 13, 2021). New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy, 27(4): 279-307 (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4029202
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
631
RANK
713,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies