Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing my cash flow: The influence of tax on small service sector business cash flow

(2021) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 16(1), 1-37

37 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Melissa Belle Isle

Griffith University

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 14, 2021

Abstract

This article reports the findings of a multiple case study of the perception of small business owners in the service sector in relation to the effect taxation has on their business cash flow. In particular, the project investigates the potential cash flow effect due to Fringe Benefit Tax (FBT), Goods and Service Tax (GST), Income Tax, Pay as You Go (PAYG) Withholding and Superannuation Guarantee (SG). The findings suggest that small business owners have the greatest concerns about GST and PAYG on cash flow stability, with less concern about the impact of FBT, SG and Income Tax. The impact of tax on cash flow is not identified primarily as a cash flow issue, instead other business factors appear to have a negative impact on the tax and cash flow relationship.

Keywords: tax, small business, cash flow, Australia

JEL Classification: k34, M41,

Suggested Citation:

Belle Isle, Melissa and Freudenberg, Brett, Taxing my cash flow: The influence of tax on small service sector business cash flow (December 14, 2021). (2021) Journal of Australasian Tax Teachers Association 16(1), 1-37, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4040340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies