Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Interest Deductibility

38 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022 Last revised: 4 Apr 2022

David Hasen

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

The proper tax treatment of interest expense has been a subject of disagreement since the inception of the modern income tax in the early twentieth century. On one view, the purpose of the financing transaction dictates the tax treatment of interest so that interest paid on borrowing used to finance consumption should be nondeductible, whereas business interest should be deductible. On another view, interest paid does not finance a consumption item but rather a mere shift in resources and therefore should be deductible at all events, assuming the recipient includes the interest received in income.

Both of these views lead to conundrums that cannot be resolved without considering the broader question of why some expenses are deductible at all. Focusing on that question, it turns out that business interest, like any other business expense, should generally be deductible as a timing or an accounting principle under an income tax. That principle does not apply to personal interest expense. Nevertheless, there may be an independent basis to permit a deduction for personal interest expense that is grounded in considerations of vertical equity.

A related question arises when loan proceeds finance the purchase of business assets that are taxed under consumption tax principles. Congress has lately sought to limit interest deductibility in this setting because of the arbitrage benefit that it provides, but a better approach would be to apply consumption tax principles more consistently to the overall arrangement. Such an approach would keep business interest deductible, but loan proceeds would be includible in gross income in whole or part.

Keywords: interest expense, tax policy, taxation

JEL Classification: H20, H25, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hasen, David, Interest Deductibility (March 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4047289 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4047289
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Kirby Lumber
284 U.S Posted: 1931
Martin J Mcmahon , Jr Daniel , L Simmons
A Field Guide to Cancellation of Debt Income, 63 TAX LAW , volume 415 , p. 421 - 422 Posted: 2010
B)
excludes COD income to the extent the taxpayer is insolvent, subject to possible recapture in future years by means of reductions in tax attributes
§ , volume 108 , issue b
Kerbaugh-Empire
Posted: 1926
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
120
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
538,270
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies