Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Framework for Taxing Cryptocurrencies

The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 77, No. 1 (Fall 2023)

76 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2022 Last revised: 17 Jan 2024

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Mohanad Salaimi

University of Michigan Law School - Law Student

Date Written: March 31, 2022

Abstract

This Article explores the tax law challenges associated with the taxation of cryptocurrencies and offers proposals to address such challenges. Specifically, the Article addresses the proper tax treatment of different cryptocurrency transactions and activities. It examines various aspects associated with the taxation of cryptocurrency through its life cycle, starting from earning cryptocurrency, through its disposal or exchange. The Article also examines the tax treatment of two special crypto events, hard forks and airdrops.

Keywords: cryptocurrencies, taxation

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. and Salaimi, Mohanad, A New Framework for Taxing Cryptocurrencies (March 31, 2022). The Tax Lawyer, Vol. 77, No. 1 (Fall 2023) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4071391 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4071391
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
A Umar , S Oseni , Nazim Ali Eds
's message and the decryption of the message by the recipient. Nafis Alam & Abdolhossein Zameni, The Regulation of Fintech and Cryptocurrencies
FINTECH IN ISLAMIC FINANCE , volume 163 Posted: 2019
See What is a Cryptocurrency?, COINBASE, last accessed Sept , volume 27 Posted: 2022
Binance Welcome To Crypto , Academy
, volume 27 Posted: 2022
Prasad
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,525
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,140
RANK
28,305
4 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies