Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The New and Decidedly Improved IRS 'Fact Sheet' Frequently Asked Questions

Taxes - The Tax Magazine, Vol. 100, No. 4, p. 49 (April 2022)

6 Pages Posted: 28 Apr 2022

Frank G. Colella

Pace University

Date Written: February 2022

Abstract

On October 15, 2021, the IRS issued a News Release that updated its process for the issuance of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on “new tax legislation” and addressed concerns that taxpayers and practitioners had expressed about whether FAQs could be relied upon in the context of penalty relief requests. Had this News Release been issued as recently as two years ago, it may have raises some eyebrows because the number of IRS FAQs was relatively small and most practitioners were generally aware that they could not be cited as “authority” for a given tax position. But, in the post-Coronavirus world of tax practice and procedure, this News Release was a significant event given the sheer number of FAQs issued by the IRS in response to the tax legislation enacted as a result of the pandemic.

The IRS stated that, going forward, significant FAQs would be released in a “Fact Sheet” to accompany the news release in which they are initially announced. These “Fact Sheet” FAQs will be, in turn, published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (IRB). Publication in the IRB will elevate the “weight” otherwise accorded to an FAQ that was merely “posted” on the IRS website. In addition, the IRS will archive earlier versions of a given FAQ so there would be a record of its existence if that FAQ is subsequently revised (or even withdrawn). While it would seem like common sense to keep records of the earlier versions, prior to the new procedure, no archive of prior FAQs was maintained.

This article briefly reviews the role of FAQs as part of the IRS’s efforts to provide taxpayers with guidance. It examines FAQs from two perspectives: the process by which the IRS undertakes to issue them and the relative weight taxpayers may assign to them as authority for a given return position. Scholl v. Mnuchin is examined in connection with drafting FAQs and the recent FAQs issued in connection with the Virtual Currency Transactions Question on Form 1040 is examined for the latter discussion. The article then reviews the specific details of the IRS’s newly issued FAQ guidance. It concludes that the new guidance significantly benefits taxpayers by, inter alia, clarifying that taxpayers who rely, in good faith, on FAQs can obtain penalty relief based on that reliance.


Keywords: IRS Practice & Procedure, FAQs, Tax Guidance, Tax Authority, IRS Penalties, IRS Penalty Relief

Suggested Citation:

Colella, Frank G., The New and Decidedly Improved IRS 'Fact Sheet' Frequently Asked Questions (February 2022). Taxes - The Tax Magazine, Vol. 100, No. 4, p. 49 (April 2022) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4075147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
765
RANK
484,258
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies