Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of joint audit in audit quality - Practitioners’ insights

67 Pages Posted: 20 Apr 2022

Oliver Marnet

University of Southampton

Date Written: April 8, 2022

Abstract

Outside those jurisdictions where joint audit is regularly practiced, this audit model tends to be poorly understood and frequently remains subject to often repeated but unsubstantiated misapprehensions. Meanwhile, even reviews which set out to provide an objective and comprehensive overview of this mechanism may base their insights and recommendations on a somewhat selective analysis of prior research, partial citations, omissions, and discriminatory interpretation of research results. Meanwhile, academic research into external audit suffers from a multitude of methodological difficulties, and results in mixed, inconclusive, and contradictory results, where even minor changes to assumptions, environmental settings, modelling, and data selection can lead to widely differing conclusions. This also applies to research into joint audit , and perhaps more so. One outcome of this mixed experience is that calls for more empirical research along tried and tested, but debateable, methodologies into joint audit may offer limited promise for more persuasive insights on audit quality effects from any this model.
This is not particularly helpful to the current discussion on audit reform, or on debates whether particular audit models and mechanisms might contribute to audit quality. In a reflection on decades of audit reform, Humphrey et al. (2018) suggest that there is a need to ask different questions in the exploration of ways and means to enhance the quality of audit and to allow audit to re-engage with its social role. These authors note a need for stakeholders to adopt a much greater diversity of inquiry, including an exploration of lessons from success as well as failure, and to reflect more deeply on the realities and experiences of audit practitioners. In a closely related discussion, Biehl et al. (2021), exploring issues underlying contradictory empirical results in the audit literature, encourage a focus on audit quality enhancing factors (Biehl et al, 2021).
By presenting insights from practitioners, regulators, and audit committee chairs with first-hand experience of joint audit, together with reflections from stakeholders less familiar with its application, the present investigation seeks to expand and build on recent reports, inquiries, consultations and policy reform discussions on the role, future, and shape of external audit. Aiming to inform the discussion on audit reform, this study aims to de-mystify joint audit, sheds a critical light on this audit model, and hopes to provide stakeholders with a deeper understanding of what joint audit is, how it works in practice, and which key characteristics of this model may allow it to make a positive contribution to the quality of external audit.


Keywords: Joint audit, audit reform, audit quality, practitioners, governance

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48,

Suggested Citation:

Marnet, Oliver, The role of joint audit in audit quality - Practitioners’ insights (April 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4078751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4078751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
465
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,775
RANK
141,605
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies