Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Timing Is Everything: The Step Transaction Doctrine in GSS Holdings

Tax Notes Federal, March 28, 2022, p. 1849

9 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Stefanie Di Giandomenico

Blue J Legal

Date Written: March 28, 2022

Abstract

In this article, we explore how tax experts can use machine learning tools to safely test and assess potential litigation strategies before deploying them at trial or on appeal. This can be especially useful for cases involving questions of law that turn on interrelated factors, such as the step transaction doctrine. By way of illustration, we put the recent GSS Holdings Court of Federal Claims decision under our machine learning microscope to see what we can see.

The case is being appealed by the taxpayer, GSS Holdings, to the Federal Circuit. The trial court reached its decision on cross-motions for summary judgment, favoring the government. It applied the step transaction doctrine to step together two transactions, finding them to constitute one asset sale for tax purposes. The court concentrated its analysis on a two-day period leading up to and including the sale, rejecting the taxpayer’s argument that the analysis should begin many years earlier, when the relevant agreements were first negotiated. When following the trial court’s characterization of the relevant time period, Blue J predicts a government win with 65 percent confidence.

On appeal, GSS argues that the trial court did not apply the step transaction doctrine correctly. More specifically, it contends that the court used an inappropriate hybrid test in reaching its decision and did not consider the appropriate time frame.

Machine learning can help us assess how important timing is to the outcome of the case. Without passing judgment on the likelihood of the appellate court adopting GSS’s preferred view of timing, we can explore how successful GSS would be if the longer time period is used as the basis for the step transaction doctrine analysis on appeal.

Our analysis using Blue J’s step transaction doctrine machine learning model suggests that if GSS can convince the Federal Circuit to extend its analysis beyond December 2011, to include the times at which the earlier agreements were entered into, the step transaction doctrine would probably not apply to step together the transactions at issue and the taxpayer would prevail with 94 percent confidence.

Keywords: machine-learning, AI, step transaction doctrine, tax avoidance, step transactions

JEL Classification: J00, H2, H00

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Di Giandomenico, Stefanie, Timing Is Everything: The Step Transaction Doctrine in GSS Holdings (March 28, 2022). Tax Notes Federal, March 28, 2022, p. 1849, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4084164
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
799,009
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies