Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Don’t Forget the 'G' in ESG: The SEC and Corporate Governance Disclosure

64 Ariz. L. Rev. 217 (2022)

45 Pages Posted: 16 May 2022 Last revised: 6 Jul 2022

Jennifer O'Hare

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law

Abstract

For years, many shareholders—both institutional and individual investors—have pressured the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to require public companies to disclose more information about the environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) risks facing the company. However, the SEC has generally refused calls to require public corporations to disclose, for example, how they are addressing climate change or workforce diversity challenges. With a new president in the White House and a new administration at the SEC, the SEC will soon propose new ESG disclosure rules, requiring more information about the “E” and the “S” in ESG. But the SEC has forgotten the “G” in ESG. This is a mistake.

In this Article, I highlight the overlooked relationship between governance, on the one hand, and environmental and social risks, on the other, and I show how this connection should inform the SEC’s forthcoming ESG-disclosure initiative. First, I demonstrate that the disclosure of governance information and the disclosure of environmental and social information are crucially linked. I argue that requiring public companies to disclose information about the environmental and social risks facing the company is not enough to protect investors. To ensure that shareholders are fully informed about ESG, the SEC must also require public companies to provide additional information about their corporate governance practices to establish that the board is able to manage those risks. Second, I argue that new rules requiring mandatory disclosure of additional governance information, particularly information relating to shareholder rights, will cause public companies to adopt better corporate governance practices. This will, in turn, strengthen the ability of shareholders to hold boards accountable if they fail to address the environmental and social risks that face public corporations today. Finally, I propose that the new mandatory information should be included in a new “Summary Corporate Governance Table.” This table should be made part of the proxy statement and should also be required to be posted as a standalone document on the company website for easy investor access. If the SEC does not recognize that the “G” is connected to the “E” and “S,” the SEC’s ESG-disclosure initiative will not be successful.

Keywords: ESG, Corporate Governance, SEC, Shareholder Rights, Corporate Accountability, Proxy Statement, ESG-disclosure

Suggested Citation:

O'Hare, Jennifer, Don’t Forget the 'G' in ESG: The SEC and Corporate Governance Disclosure. 64 Ariz. L. Rev. 217 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4096111
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
U N Glob , Compact
See generally WHO CARES WINS: CONNECTING FINANCIAL MARKETS TO A CHANGING WORLD Posted: 2004-12
State Street Global Advisors, the world's third largest asset manager, often uses the phrase that addressing ESG is a "matter of value, not values
Letter from Cyrus Taraporevala, President & CEO, State St. Glob. Advisors, to Board Members Posted: 2020-01-28
See Jamie Smith, Four ESG Highlights from the 2020 Proxy Season, EY CTR. FOR BD. MATTERS , volume 62 Posted: 2020-07-28
Deborah Beckmann
6MW9-JRXH] (noting that boards "have begun the difficult work of determining which ESG goals are especially important for their company, and how to translate those goals into incentives for executive compensation Posted: 2021-04-15
Load more
1 Citations
David Newton , Steven R. G. Ongena , Ru Xie , Binru Zhao
Firm ESG Reputation Risk and Debt Choice
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 22-22 · 54 Pages · Posted: 13 Mar 2022 · Last revised: 26 Apr 2023 · Downloads: 724
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,575
RANK
138,019
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies