Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Strange and Curious Tax Treatment of Investment Expenses

Villanova Law Review, Vol. 67, No. 101, 2022

34 Pages Posted: 6 May 2022

Jay A. Soled

Rutgers University

Mallory Morris

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 2, 2022

Abstract

To secure income, taxpayers often incur a wide range of expenses. At least theoretically, one might think that the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) would accord all such expenses similar tax treatment, but (i) trade or business expenses and (ii) investment expenses endure the exact opposite tax treatment: the former are generally allowed, whereas the latter are commonly disallowed. The obvious question is why there is a difference in treatment between the two.

This Article explores possible answers to that important question. It first traces the evolution of the Code’s dichotomous tax treatment of trade or business versus investment expenses. It then investigates possible justifications and their associated merits for the different handling of these two expense categories. With this background information in mind, to make the tax system more administrable, equitable, and efficient, this Article advocates for the deductibility of investment expenses and describes several beneficial implications associated with the institution of this proposed reform.


Keywords: Tax, Investment Expense

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Soled, Jay and Morris, Mallory, The Strange and Curious Tax Treatment of Investment Expenses (May 2, 2022). Villanova Law Review, Vol. 67, No. 101, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4098872
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
E G See , D Mark , Griffiths
Why Do You Gamble? Posted: 2015-08-26
Why Gamblers Get High Even When They Lose, BBC Posted: 2016-07-21
Ferris Jabr
Addictive drugs and gambling rewire neural circuits in similar ways
SCI. AM Posted: 2013-01
Wilson John
Neuropsychology of Sports Betting: There's a Reason You Want to Keep Placing More Bets, SPORTS HANDLE Posted: 2018-05-02
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
325
RANK
719,188
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies