Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Opinion Policies and Procedures

Hofstra Univ. Legal Studies Research Paper

The Tax Lawyer Vol. 75. No. 3, 2022

46 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022

Linda Galler

Hofstra University - Maurice A. Deane School of Law

Date Written: May 10, 2022

Abstract

This Article summarizes and comments on a 2021 survey by the American College of Tax Counsel (ACTC) on the policies and procedures followed by law and accounting firms in drafting tax opinions. The Article provides back- ground on the contexts in which tax opinions are issued and considerations that are relevant to the composition of such opinions; defines and distinguishes among the levels of assurance at which tax opinions are typically pro- vided; and presents an overview of ethical rules and related considerations, including Circular 230 and the Code’s preparer penalty provisions, implicated in the process of drafting and issuing tax opinions. The Article concludes by making several suggestions to professional firms that are engaged in establishing or reviewing their own opinion processes and to ACTC on how to move forward with its effort to provide useful information and materials to tax professionals.

Suggested Citation:

Galler, Linda, Tax Opinion Policies and Procedures (May 10, 2022). Hofstra Univ. Legal Studies Research Paper, The Tax Lawyer Vol. 75. No. 3, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4105841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
lawyer may advise reporting a position on a return even where the lawyer believes the position probably will not prevail, there is no 'substantial authority' in support of the position
See supra text accompanying notes 65-92. The more likely than not standard is specifically defined in the regulations under section 6694(a), as a position having a greater than 50% chance of being sustained on the merits. Reg. § 1.6694-2(b)(1). 114 There is a reasonable cause and good faith exception
I.R.C. § , volume 6694 , issue 3
ABA Comm. on Ethics & Prof'l Responsibility , p. 85 - 352 Posted: 1985
Id
The treaty is: ABA Comm. on Audit Inquiry Responses, Statement of Policy Regarding Lawyers' Responses to Auditors' Requests for Information, 31 BUS. LAW. 1709 (1975); see also ABA Audit Responses Committee, Statement on Updates to Audit Response Letters Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
695
RANK
432,122
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Hofstra University - Maurice A. Deane School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies