Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Global Supply Chain Auditing

Cambridge Handbook of Compliance (D. Daniel Sokol & Benjamin van Rooij eds., Cambridge University Press, 2021)

12 Pages Posted: 11 May 2022

Galit Sarfaty

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 15, 2021

Abstract

The governance of global supply chains is a ripe area of study for legal scholars As part of an analysis of the governance of multi-tiered global supply chains and the implementation of recent supply chain transparency laws, this chapter analyzes the central role of supply chain auditors. These actors conduct human rights due diligence and implement supply chain policies on behalf of companies, which are in effect outsourcing their compliance obligations. In this chapter, I first discuss the emergence of a supply chain-audit regime in response to recent legislation, industry standards, and reputational pressure on companies to enhance their social and environmental performance. Next, I analyze concerns over the efficacy of supply chain auditors in incentivizing improvements in corporate compliance and behavior. Among the critiques are that audits advance the interests of downstream buyers; auditors are reluctant to report fraud; audits do not move beyond first-tier suppliers; audits are of limited duration; auditors fail to engage with workers; audit results are not released to the public; and suppliers have an incentive to cheat. Finally, I briefly offer remedies that have been proposed to address some of the major critiques and thereby enhance the effectiveness of the supply chain-auditing regime.

Keywords: global supply chains, auditing, supply chain transparency, corporate compliance

Suggested Citation:

Sarfaty, Galit, Global Supply Chain Auditing (January 15, 2021). Cambridge Handbook of Compliance (D. Daniel Sokol & Benjamin van Rooij eds., Cambridge University Press, 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4105928
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Greg Asbed , Steve Hitov
Preventing Forced Labor in Corporate Supply Chains. The Fair Food Program and Worker-Driven Social Responsibility
Wake Forest Law Review , volume 52 , p. 497 - 531 Posted: 2017
Stephanie Barrientos
Contract Labor: The Achilles Heel of Corporate Codes in Commercial Value Chains
Development & Change , volume 39 , issue 6 , p. 977 - 990 Posted: 2008
Stephanie Barrientos , Sally Smith
Do Workers Benefit from Ethical Trade? Assessing Codes of Labour Practice in Global Production Systems
Third World Quarterly , volume 28 , issue 4 , p. 713 - 729 Posted: 2007
Tim Bartley
Institutional Emergence in an Era of Globalization: The Rise of Transnational Private Regulation of Labor and Environmental Conditions
American Journal of Sociology , volume 113 , issue 2 , p. 297 - 351 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
933
RANK
297,327
1 Citations
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Public International Law: Human Rights eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies