Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is it an asset purchase or business combination?

Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1

13 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2023

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: April 1, 2022

Abstract

Determining whether an acquisition of a company by another constitutes a business combination or alternatively an asset acquisition is a very complex undertaking and even the learned public accountants might need help from experts as seen in this transaction review in which one entity acquired the other on 31st December 2014 which was treated as business combination and goodwill recognised thereof. Close scrutiny however indicated otherwise. Serious accounting flaws were identified in this study which ranged from classifying acquisition in the company as an intangible asset in the statement of cash flows instead of investment in another company but worse still, goodwill figure was recognised instead of consideration paid to former owners of acquiree. Furthermore, the details of net assets acquired in terms of non-current tangible assets, investments, intangible assets and liabilities as gross figures were not presented which is a significant exception from the traditional business combination transaction. The study recommends full impairment of goodwill to rectify the anomalies.

Keywords: Asset; Purchase; Business; Combination

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49, G20, G21

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Is it an asset purchase or business combination? (April 1, 2022). Mergers Acquisitions and Disposals Journal, Vol. 3, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4106580
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Bdo
Amendments to IFRS 3 -Definition of a Business
International Financial Reporting Bulletin Posted: 2018
Cristina Bunea-Bontaş , Aurora , Petre Cosmina , Mihaela
New approaches regarding business combinations
Asset or Business Acquisition? A Question Not to be Underestimated Deloitte Touche Tomhatsu (2008) Business combinations and changes in ownership interests: A guide to the revised IFRS 3 and IAS 27 IFRS 3 -Business Combination (2011) IFRS 10 -Consolidated Financial Statements Posted: 2009
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Goodwill recognition in Malawian Banking Industry
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 78 Posted: 2021
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Size and Extent of Financial Statement Fraud in Malawi
Forensic Accounting eJournal Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
RANK
592,728
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Acquisitions, Mergers, Contests for Control, & Activism eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies