Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Normalizing the central bank’s balance sheet: Implications for inflation and debt dynamics

35 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2023

Begoña Dominguez

University of Queensland - School of Economics

Pedro Gomis-Porqueras

Queensland University of Technology; Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: May 23, 2022

Abstract

We explore the effects of reducing the overall size of the central bank’s balance sheet and lowering its maturity structure. To do so, we consider an environment where fiscal policy is traditionally passive and the central bank follows the Taylor principle. In addition, the monetary authority has also explicit size and compositional rules regarding its balance sheet. Agents in this economy face limited commitment in some markets and government bonds can be used as collateral. When short and long-term public debt exhibit premia, changes in the central bank’s balance sheet have implications for long-run inflation and real allocations. To ensure a unique locally stable steady state, the central bank should target a low enough maturity composition of its balance sheet. In our numerical exercise, calibrated to the United States, we find that long-term debt holdings by the central bank should be less than 0.5 times of their short-term positions. Moreover, the process of balance sheet normalization should aggressively respond to the total debt issued in the economy relative to its target. These findings depend on the degree of liquidity of long-term bonds. The more liquid long-term bonds are, the lower is the value of the composition threshold and the parameter space consistent with unique and stable equilibria is smaller. In addition, we consider a modified Taylor rule that takes into account the premium. Such rule increases the prevalence of multiplicity of steady states and delivers lower welfare. Thus, we argue that the traditional Taylor rule is appropriate for managing interest rates in the presence of premia.

Keywords: Inflation, Government Bonds, Liquidity, Spreads, Maturity, Balance Sheet.

JEL Classification: E40, E61, E62, H21

Suggested Citation:

Dominguez, Begoña and Gomis-Porqueras, Pedro, Normalizing the central bank’s balance sheet: Implications for inflation and debt dynamics (May 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4117975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4117975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
D Andolfatto , M Martín
Monetary Policy And Liquid Government Debt
Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control , volume 89 , p. 183 - 199 Posted: 2018
G Antinolfi , F Carapella , C Kahn , A Martin , D Mills , E
Repos, Fire Sales, and Bankruptcy Policy , volume 18 , p. 21 - 31 Posted: 2015
J Andres , J D López-Salido , E Nelson
Tobin's Imperfect Asset Substitution in Optimizing General Equilibrium
Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 665 - 690 Posted: 2004
O Arce , G Nuño , D Thaler , C Thomas
A Large central bank Balance Sheet? Floor vs Corridor Systems in a New Keynesian Environment
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 114 , p. 350 - 367 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
527
RANK
785,592
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies