Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Law of Alternative Dispute Resolution in Tax Disputes in Tanzania A Lesson from Australia

53 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2022

Asherry Magalla

Tumaini University; University of Iringa

Joseph Augustine

Kampala University

Date Written: August 12, 2021

Abstract

A discussion in this article is on legal context of the laws dealing with alternative dispute resolution predominantly on tax conflicts supervision with a comparative study with other jurisdictions. A comparative study is made between Australia and Tanzania to see the effectiveness of the laws dealing with tax disagreements which are conducted through alternative dispute resolution methods of dispute resolution. When it comes to Tanzanian Tax Revenue Appeal Board Rule of 2018 and Tax Revenue Appeals Tribunal Rules of 2018 they have excluded the use of rules and procedures as encompassed within Civil Procedure Act Cap.33 of 1966 R.E. 2019 and Arbitration Act of 2020 hence create uncertainty on the applicability of alternative dispute resolution rules which have been established by the above two principal legislations (Civil Procedure Act Cap.33 of 1966 R.E. 2019 as amended and Arbitration Act of 2020) on alternative dispute resolution. It is not a problem that the above two Rules have excluded the applicability of CPC and Arbitration Act of 2020, but the absence of fixed formal rule is the problem. Section 33 Tax Revenue Appeal Act gives power to the Minister after consultation with the Chief Justice, to make rules generally laying down the procedure applicable for the conduct of proceedings by the Board or the Tribunal and the manner in which appeals from the Tribunal may be lodged to the Court of Appeal. But having the Rules with no formal ADR procedures or codes despite of the process being recognized as stipulated above create vagueness in operating ADR procedures. To clear this uncertainty a comparative analysis with other jurisdictions such as Australia is decisive so as to see the importance of having these procedures, rules or codes dealing with tax disagreements which are conducted through alternative dispute resolution methods of dispute resolution. Australia is selected simply because it’s one among the commonwealth countries hence sharing the same legal system. Also, she is well developed in terms of tax legislations development particularly in alternative dispute resolution methods.



Keywords: Tax, tax matter, tax disputes, tax laws, alternative dispute resolution

Suggested Citation:

Magalla, Asherry and Augustine, Joseph, The Law of Alternative Dispute Resolution in Tax Disputes in Tanzania A Lesson from Australia (August 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4123370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4123370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
Alternative Dispute Resolution Methods, United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), Eugene Cotran &Austin Amissah, Arbitration in Africa
Onyema Empowering Africa in the 21st Century Through Arbitration and ADR , volume 2 Posted: 1996
Fauz Twaib
A Casebook on the Tax Law of Tanzania
LLM Course Relating to NBC'S Lending Policies , volume 1 Posted: 2003
Kibuta Ongwamuhana
Tax Compliance in Tanzania: Analysis of Law &Policy affecting Voluntary Tax Payer Compliance
Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, Workbook on Mediation Posted: 2002
Banter
Justice in Many Rooms: Courts, Private Ordering and Indigenous Law
Journal of Legal Pluralism , volume 19 Posted: 1981
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
289
ABSTRACT VIEWS
912
RANK
241,038
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies