Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Collectibles and Other Actual Physical Things

175 Tax Notes Federal 1191 (2022)

8 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022

Libin Zhang

Fried Frank

Date Written: May 23, 2022

Abstract

Two tax rules apply to a finite set of “collectibles” as defined in the tax law. Net long-term gain on the sale of a ‘collectible’ capital asset is taxed at 28%, instead of the usual 20% tax rate. In addition, Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and self-directed retirement plans are prohibited from owning a subset of such collectibles.

Not everything that is vaguely collectible is considered a “collectible” under the tax rules, and certain items that are not particularly collectible may be considered a tax “collectible”. Two infrequently asked questions are addressed in this article:

1. Are Pokemon cards, Magic: The Gathering cards, and other paper collectible cards considered “collectibles” for tax purposes? Although some older cards may be antiques and therefore "collectibles" for tax purposes, newer cards should not be taxed as “collectibles” at the 28% tax rate and may be owned by an IRA absent future guidance to the contrary. Similarly, collectible video games, new clothes, records, and Rae Dunn mugs should not be considered “collectibles” under the tax rules.

2. What is the taxation of metal objects? The tax rules define a “collectible” as including “any metal.” Accordingly, gain on the sale of any capital asset might be taxed at 28% to the extent that the gain is allocable to a metallic element, from lithium to iron to plutonium in pure metal or compound form. Treasury and the IRS should provide guidance to confirm whether an IRA may own a metallic Rolex Oyster Perpetual Datejust or any real property that contains elevators, metal appliances, and other metal components.

This article does not address digital assets such as World of Warcraft gold, United Airlines miles, and rare Neopets accessories in the metaverse, some of which may be ‘collectible’ for tax purposes if they are a work of art, although there is some statutory interpretation debate over whether tax ‘collectibles’ are limited to tangible property.

Keywords: collectibles, tangible assets, cards, video games, real property, neopets

Suggested Citation:

Zhang, Libin, Taxation of Collectibles and Other Actual Physical Things (May 23, 2022). 175 Tax Notes Federal 1191 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4148028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,072
RANK
315,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies