Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimized Tax Loss Harvesting: A Simple Algorithm and Framework

34 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2022

Roni Israelov

Independent

Jason Lu

International Monetary Fund (IMF) - Research Department

Date Written: July 11, 2022

Abstract

When should you harvest a tax loss? Tax-loss harvesting is a strategy used to improve the net of tax returns of a portfolio, where an investor deliberately sells assets that have incurred a loss in order to use these losses to offset current or future capital gains. However, an important unanswered question is at what threshold should an investor harvest a loss. Specifically, the wash sale rule prevents an investor from realizing the harvested loss if they repurchase a security within 30 calendar days of their harvesting sale. Those who wish to realize a harvested loss must remain uninvested in the security for at least 30 days and hence investors ought to be somewhat selective when choosing to harvest. The wash sale rule thus places loss harvesting into a classic risk-reward paradigm, creating a trade-off between harvesting yield and active risk. In this paper we empirically document such a trade-off and provide guidance on when to harvest losses. We offer a rule-of thumb return threshold of -10% when harvesting monthly or -15% when harvesting daily. This rule of-thumb threshold sits on a frontier of efficient thresholds, from which harvesting yield is traded off against active risk. Furthermore, for out-sized positions in a portfolio, we propose and analyze a throttled harvesting algorithm which controls the active risk arising from loss harvesting. Although harvesting efficiency depends on the stock’s volatility and whether harvesting is throttled over time, we find our suggested rule-of-thumb to be a robust choice in a variety of settings.

Keywords: Direct Indexing; Loss Harvesting; Tax Loss Harvesting; Tax Alpha; Tax Efficiency; Tax Optimization; Tax-Aware Investing

JEL Classification: D14, G11, H21, H24

Suggested Citation:

Israelov, Roni and Lu, Jason, Optimized Tax Loss Harvesting: A Simple Algorithm and Framework (July 11, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152425 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4152425
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Shomesh E Chaudhuri , C Terence , Andrew W Burnham , Lo
An Empirical Evaluation of Tax-Loss-Harvesting Alpha
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 76 , p. 99 - 108 Posted: 2020
Andrew L Berkin , Christopher G Luck
Having Your Cake and Eating It Too: The Before-and After-Tax Efficiencies of an Extended Equity Mandate
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 66 , p. 33 - 45 Posted: 2010
Andrew L Berkin , Jia Ye
Tax management, loss harvesting, and HIFO accounting
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 59 , p. 91 - 102 Posted: 2003
Michael F Gallmeyer , Ron Kaniel , Stathis Tompaidis
Tax management strategies with multiple risky assets
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 80 , issue 2 , p. 243 - 291 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,109
RANK
34,805
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Wealth Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies