Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Peculiarities in Accounting: The Difficulties between Recording past Transactions and Forward-Looking Estimates - What Analysts, Investors, Creditors, and Regulators Should Be Aware Of

27 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022 Last revised: 6 Sep 2023

Jan Vogt

Independent; University of Tübingen; University of Finance and Administration

Date Written: March 1, 2022

Abstract

This paper discusses the relevance of accounting from the investor's perspective, focusing on "value". It first explains the key basic concepts of accounting - fair value accounting vs. historical cost - and thus frames the conflict between recording past transactions reliably vs. providing fair values based on future estimates. Based on the differences in market and book values of equity in combination with (at least in parts) inconsistent rules in accounting, challenges regarding systemic and firm-level transparency on value are discussed. From the perspective of this paper - focusing on the final number in the balance sheet: equity value – it cannot be said that financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS do fail to fulfill the objectives of the IFRS framework. However, accounting lost significant ground regarding the relevance of information in the context of decision-making for investors mostly because of defining significant value sitting in intangibles as out of scope. And that regardless of the fact that the IFRS foundation, in the latest update of the IFRS framework, put more focus on investors and creditors when referring to the users of financial information.

Keywords: Accounting, Valuation, Book Value, Market Value, Fair Value

JEL Classification: M41, G30, G32

Suggested Citation:

Vogt, Jan, Peculiarities in Accounting: The Difficulties between Recording past Transactions and Forward-Looking Estimates - What Analysts, Investors, Creditors, and Regulators Should Be Aware Of (March 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4152301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4152301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
) is considered. Further, discretionary options or eligible exemptions such as referenced by IFRS 4-3 for insurers are not considered
defines exemptions that are not relevant in the defined setting
According to IAS1-106 OCI is part of shareholder's equity
M Wurgler , J
the book values for the different investor groups are kept at the level inline with the investees' values
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , volume 2 , p. 357 - 424 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
531,414
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies