Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: How Canada Could Benefit from E-Invoicing for GST/HST Purposes

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2022, pp. 361-373

14 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022

Melina Rocha

Glendon College of York University

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

In this article, the author reviews the importance of electronic invoicing (e-invoicing) in value-added tax systems from the perspective of both government and taxpayers. E-invoicing is defined as the adoption of a standard requiring that businesses issue invoices containing mandatory information related to the supply in a prescribed electronic format, and transmit to the tax administration in real time through a specified electronic system. The author also analyzes the development of e-invoicing systems around the world, beginning with the Latin American pioneers and then proceeding to recent experiences in Europe. The experience in Latin America shows that governments can gain from e-invoicing through the reduction of tax fraud and the consequent increase in government revenue, while the experience in Europe shows that businesses have their own reasons for promoting e-invoicing, most notably to reduce compliance costs. In conclusion, the author suggests avenues for introducing e-invoicing into the Canadian goods and services tax/harmonized sales tax system.

Keywords: Value-added tax, Goods and Services Tax, Harmonized Sales Tax, Quebec Sales Tax, Tax Administration, Tax Credits

Suggested Citation:

de Souza Rocha Lukic, Melina, Policy Forum: How Canada Could Benefit from E-Invoicing for GST/HST Purposes (July 1, 2022). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 70, No. 2, 2022, pp. 361-373, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160076
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,348
RANK
258,444
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies