Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comment Letter on SEC Proposed Reforms of SPACs, Shell Companies, and Projections

Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 22-07-01

29 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2022 Last revised: 28 Oct 2022

Andrew F. Tuch

Washington University in St. Louis - School of Law; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

In March 2022, the Securities and Exchange Commission released proposed rules for special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs), shell companies, and projections. In this comment letter, filed with the SEC, I provide a critical assessment of this proposal.

The SEC proposed far-reaching changes intended to enhance investor protections and align disclosure and liability rules in de-SPACs more closely with those in traditional IPOs. An under-appreciated feature of the proposed reforms is that they would subject de-SPACs to provisions closely modeled on Rule 13e-3 of the Exchange Act, which applies to going-private transactions, including management buyouts. Intended to tackle potential conflicts of interest and other abuses, Rule 13e-3 requires extensive disclosures about the substantive fairness of going-private transactions and must be carefully navigated by transaction planners. Although I discuss other aspects of the proposed reforms, I focus on provisions modeled on Rule 13e-3, arguing that the most onerous of these provisions ought to be applied more selectively, to those de-SPACs posing the greatest risk of conflicts (or dilution), or not at all.


Keywords: SPACs, de-SPACs, SPAC mergers, SEC proposed reforms, going-private transactions, fairness opinions

JEL Classification: G00, G30, G34, K2, K22

Suggested Citation:

Tuch, Andrew F., Comment Letter on SEC Proposed Reforms of SPACs, Shell Companies, and Projections (June 13, 2022). Washington University in St. Louis Legal Studies Research Paper No. 22-07-01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160185 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4160185
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Deborah A Demott
Directors' Duties in Management Buyouts and Leveraged Recapitalizations, 49 OHIO ST
L. J , volume 517 Posted: 1988
D Matthew , M Cain & Steven , Davidoff
Form Over Substance: The Value of Corporate Process and Management Buy-Outs, 36 DEL
J. CORP. L Posted: 2011
Iman Anabtawi , C Rev Davis L
Predatory Management Buyouts Posted: 2016
Andrew F Tuch , A Afsharipour , M
Managing Management Buyouts: A US-UK Comparative Analysis , volume 477 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
189
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
RANK
366,348
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Washington University in St. Louis School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies