Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Australian Taxation Office Pronouncements: Why Tax Advisers Need to Exercise Caution

(2022) 24(1) Journal of Australian Taxation

9 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2022 Last revised: 14 Jan 2023

Lex Fullarton

Curtin University of Technology - Curtin Business School - Bentley Campus; Edith Cowan University - School of Business & Law

Dale Pinto

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

This opinion piece summarises the research and finding of three previously published papers in the New Zealand Journal of Taxation Law and Policy.

The authors’ research suggests that the sometimes confusing and apparently convoluted legislative change and evolving case law are leading practitioners to become increasingly reliant on ATO rulings and advice rather than conducting their own legislative research and making their own interpretations of statutes.

This article argues that the practice of accepting ATO opinions without challenge can have extremely significant fiscal impacts on taxpayers and tax collections. It warns that tax practitioners should not always consider that the rulings, determinations and advice provided by the ATO give the greater clarity and certainty in the preparation and lodgement of taxation returns and the payment of tax that are sought by practitioners.

Keywords: ATO Pronouncements, Professional Ethics, Statutory Interpretation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Fullarton, Alexander and Pinto, Dale, Australian Taxation Office Pronouncements: Why Tax Advisers Need to Exercise Caution (July 15, 2022). (2022) 24(1) Journal of Australian Taxation, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4163859 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4163859
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
709
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies