Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Development of a Sustainability Taxonomy for Investor Decision Usefulness – Reflection of SEC and ISSB Climaterelated Disclosures

22 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 16, 2022

Abstract

Globalization has led to an unprecedented correlation of massive global systems causing systemic risk to increase exponentially (Centeno et al., 2013). 10 years after the global financial crisis, what are the lessons learned, what was improved and what still needs to be accomplished? It looks this times that the next global economic crisis will be impacted by a climate crisis. This can only be prevented if the system becomes sustainable. A system can only be sustainable if inequality, governance and environmental sustainability is surmounted. According to Beyer et al., significant progress was made in the modelling, as the Global Financial Crisis revealed shortcomings in the model strategy (Beyer et al., 2017). The question arises if also progress is made on social responsibility investing in the securities, selected for social environmental ethical and institutional aspects? Based on the EU led High-Level Expert Group on Sustainability (Cullen, 2018) the EU examines how to integrate sustainability consideration into its financial policy framework. The EU plans to develop a classification system (‘taxonomy’) on what can be considered an environmentally sustainable economic activity. To overcome the climate change challenge, a consensus has a pivotal role to enable to invest in climate friendly investments, which do not turn out to be a false labelling. The global architecture of climate finance is important part of a sustainable finance architecture. Additionally, disclosure regulation is planned that institutional investors integrate ESG (environmental, social and governance) factors into their investment-decision making process. In the absence of a globally integrated financial and non-financial framework, this paper tries to put emphasis back on decision-usefulness of the investor and a Sustainability Taxonomy considering the transparency technology Extensible Reporting Mark-up language (XBRL). This working paper tries to bridge early statements about environment and the responsibility for future generations in the financial service sector(Kipper, 2017)

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, Development of a Sustainability Taxonomy for Investor Decision Usefulness – Reflection of SEC and ISSB Climaterelated Disclosures (July 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4164643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4164643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Tag -You're It! GRI Releases XBRL Taxonomies
ANONYMOUS 2007 , volume 18 , p. 1 - 6
G Aras , D Crowther
Corporate sustainability reporting: a study in disingenuity
Journal of business ethics , volume 87 Posted: 2009
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J R Phillips , S G Sutton
The impact of tagging qualitative financial information on investor decision making: Implications for XBRL
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems Posted: 2012
D Beerbaum
Towards an XBRL-enabled corporate governance reporting taxonomy. An empirical study of NYSE-listed Financial Institutions Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
378
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,087
RANK
179,717
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies