Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Sustainability Taxonomy – Lessons Learned From the Past and Analysis of Extensions

40 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2022

Dirk Beerbaum

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 17, 2022

Abstract

We investigate what are the lessons learned from the past with regard to the development of a sustainability taxonomy. We identify the major data items that are required for digital consumption of financial reports with digitized IFRS financial data and the deviations occurring in current implementations of digitalized data (XRBL lodgment). The findings have implications for regulators in determining the form and nature of sustainability reporting taxonomy.

Keywords: Sustainability taxonomy, XBRL, IFRS Taxonomy, Structured data, Information Assurance, Auditing digital reports, Customized Extensions Elements, Information asymmetries

Suggested Citation:

Beerbaum Dr., Dirk, The Sustainability Taxonomy – Lessons Learned From the Past and Analysis of Extensions (July 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4165065 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4165065
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
G A Akerlof
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 Posted: 1970
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J Phillips , S G Sutton
The impact of information tagging in the MD&A on investor decision making: Implications for XBRL Posted: 2009
V Arnold , J C Bedard , J R Phillips , S G Sutton
The impact of tagging qualitative financial information on investor decision making: Implications for XBRL
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 13 , p. 2 - 20 Posted: 2012
F Avallone
XBRL Extension to the Financial Statement Notes: Field-based Evidence on Unlisted Companies , volume 16 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
RANK
719,188
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies