Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Computation of the Effective Tax Rate and the 'Top-up Tax'

W. Haslehner, K. Pantazatou, G. Kofler and A. Rust (eds), The Global Minimum Corporate Tax, Forthcoming.

42 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2022

Valentin Bendlinger

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Georg Kofler

Vienna University of Economics and Business - Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law

Date Written: May 1, 2022

Abstract

In the tax law community, the terms Pillar II and GloBE are generally associated almost automatically with the ‘Income Inclusion Rule’ (IIR) and the ‘Undertaxed Profits Rule’ (UTPR), commonly referred to as GloBE Rules. The fact that both ‘rules’ serve to levy a ‘Top-up Tax’, which is based on the difference between the agreed minimum tax rate of 15% and an ‘Effective Tax Rate’ (ETR), is often only addressed in the second place. Unjustly, the calculation of the ‘Top-up Tax’ has been pushed into the shadow of the GloBE Rules in the literature. However, from a purely legal perspective, prerequisite and legal consequence are twisted here: The ‘Top-up Tax’ is the actual tax to be levied to achieve the minimum level and the IIR and UTPR are merely mechanisms that determine which taxpayer is liable to pay the resulting minimum tax. A resulting ‘Top-up Tax’ is therefore a necessary precondition for the application of the IIR and UTPR. In this respect, it becomes obvious that the calculation of the ETR and the ‘Top-up Tax’ are at the heart of GloBE. It is not surprising that the GloBE Commentary on the GloBE Model Rules has also recognised that “[t]he ETR computation in Article 5.1 is a central element of the GloBE Rules” and even that is an understatement: Rather, it will become apparent that the ETR calculation is the central element of the GloBE Rules. The ETR creates the comparative value to the politically agreed minimum tax. It determines whether this minimum tax has been exceeded or not and thus whether a ‘Top-up Tax’ occurs in the first place and, ultimately, in what amount it is to be levied. The ETR computation is thus actually a part, or rather the starting point, of the ‘Top-up Tax’ computation. This contribution is devoted to the computation of the ETR and the ‘Top-up Tax’ and aims to shed light into these rather technical parts of the GloBE Model Rules.

Keywords: Pillar Two; minimum taxation; GloBE, Effective Tax Rate, Top-up Tax, Income Inclusion Rule, Undertaxed Payments Rule

Suggested Citation:

Bendlinger, Valentin and Kofler, Georg, Computation of the Effective Tax Rate and the 'Top-up Tax' (May 1, 2022). W. Haslehner, K. Pantazatou, G. Kofler and A. Rust (eds), The Global Minimum Corporate Tax, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4171797
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
GloBE Model Rules (2021), supra n. 2. Also see Art 3(12) GloBE-Directive Proposal , volume 10 Posted: 2021
On the political consensus in terms of these parameters, see OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on BEPS, Statement on a Two-Pillar Solution to Address the Tax Challenges Arising From the Digitalisation of the Economy Posted: 2021-10-08
For a very illuminating conceptual analysis of minimum taxes, see D. Shaviro, What Are Minimum Taxes, and Why Might One Favor or Disfavor Them?
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2020-12-29
GloBE Model Rules Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
709
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,331
RANK
83,248
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies