Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Semantic Gyrations’ – When Are Naartjies Oranges? Beneath the Surface of Absa Bank Limited v CSARS

Pidduck, T. and Swanepoel, S., 2021. 'Semantic Gyrations' - When are Naartjies oranges? Beneath the surface of ABSA Bank Limited v CSARS. SA Mercantile Law Journal, 33(3), pp.470-495.

28 Pages Posted: 16 Sep 2022

Teresa Pidduck

University of Pretoria

Sumarie Swanepoel

University of Pretoria - Department of Taxation

Date Written: December 31, 2021

Abstract

Taxpayer rights and tax avoidance are both highly debated topics in tax law. The Absa case addressed both by dealing with two different but equally critical concerns within South Africa’s tax legislation:

(i) First, from an administrative perspective, the case considers the entitlement of a taxpayer to review a decision taken by the South African Revenue Service (‘SARS’) in court rather than to pursue the protracted dispute resolution mechanisms provided for in the Tax Administration Act 28 of 2011 (‘TAA’). The case also brings issues around burden of proof into play, as well as the interaction of various administrative provisions in the TAA with those in the underlying tax Acts.

(ii) Secondly, from a substantive perspective, the case is the first reported case to consider any aspect of the General Anti-Avoidance Rule (‘GAAR’) since the GAAR’s amendment in 2006. While admittedly not all of the components of the GAAR are considered in the case, it is the first judicial interpretation of the provision and may be the first indication of the efficacy of the GAAR in combatting tax avoidance.

This case note sets out the facts, issues, judgment — including submissions — and comments and analysis of the Absa case. The analysis of the case unearths a disjointedness between the legislature’s intention and the wording of certain administrative provisions, and criticises the ability of the administrative provisions contained in various tax Acts to work in concert with one another. A review of these administrative provisions by the legislature may be warranted in the light of this case. Furthermore, the judgment could also impact the interpretation and application of similar terms used in the reportable arrangement section of the TAA.

The analysis also exposes some causes for concern regarding the interpretation of the GAAR that may undermine its ability to combat tax avoidance and suppress the mischief of taxpayers. Consequently, until possible appeal, this judgment may have far-reaching effects on the GAAR if the precedent set here is followed in other courts. These matters are explored in more detail in the comments analysis in Part V.


Keywords: GAAR, Avoidance, Taxpayer rights, Dispute resolution

JEL Classification: K34, G18, G38, F38

Suggested Citation:

Pidduck, Teresa and Swanepoel, Sumarie, ‘Semantic Gyrations’ – When Are Naartjies Oranges? Beneath the Surface of Absa Bank Limited v CSARS (December 31, 2021). Pidduck, T. and Swanepoel, S., 2021. 'Semantic Gyrations' - When are Naartjies oranges? Beneath the surface of ABSA Bank Limited v CSARS. SA Mercantile Law Journal, 33(3), pp.470-495., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4190214 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4190214
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
929
RANK
644,872
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies