Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Old Regs: The Default Six-Year Time Bar for Administrative Procedure Claims

U of Texas Law, Legal Studies Research Paper

George Mason Law Review, Vol. 31, No. 1

73 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2022 Last revised: 23 May 2024

Susan C. Morse

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: August 16, 2022

Abstract

Old regs should not be subject indefinitely to administrative procedure challenge. Instead, we should leave them alone. The consensus case law view applies the six-year limitations period under 28 U.S.C. § 2401(a) with accrual at the time of promulgation. This strikes the right balance between accuracy and repose and correctly reflects that all of the elements of the administrative procedure claim are in place at the time of the alleged error, when the regulation was promulgated. When -- as is sometimes true in tax -- the government delays a claim through no fault of any plaintiff, judicial equity and administrative restraint provide appropriate solutions.

Keywords: limitations period, 28 USC 2401(a), six year default time bar, Corner Post, Administrative Procedure Act, Hewitt, Oakbrook, Govig

JEL Classification: K34, K23

Suggested Citation:

Morse, Susan C., Old Regs: The Default Six-Year Time Bar for Administrative Procedure Claims (August 16, 2022). U of Texas Law, Legal Studies Research Paper , George Mason Law Review, Vol. 31, No. 1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4191798 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4191798
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
U S C
§  (requiring notice and comment for rulemaking subject to exceptions for
E G See , Abbott Labs
Id , Kristin E See , Richard J Hickman , J R Pierce
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW TREATISE § ., at 
U S C 
§ (a)() (conferring jurisdiction for the recovery of illegally assessed taxes)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,218
RANK
161,684
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies