Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DAO Accounting

20 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2022 Last revised: 19 Apr 2023

Kristof Lommers

University of Oxford, Said Business School

Muzammil Ghanchi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kevin Ngo

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Qirong Song

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jiahua Xu

University College London - Department of Computer Science; The DLT Science Foundation; École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL); UCL

Date Written: August 25, 2022

Abstract

In this paper, we propose and discuss an accounting framework for Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). At the moment there is no framework on how transactions within DAOs should be structured and accounted for. DAOs tend to operate and manage the system of transactions according to their own framework and use the services of independent accountants. An accounting framework would be necessary to properly measure and report DAO activity in a form that is useful for stakeholders. Given that DAOs are an increasingly influential organizational form, we believe that introducing a standardized accounting framework would improve transparency, legitimacy, and mainstream adoption of DAOs. In order to ensure that the transactions within the DAO are handled in a balanced system, a framework according to double-entry accounting is proposed. While the proposed framework leans heavily on traditional double-entry bookkeeping, it brings innovation to the accounting cycle through the process of journalizing transactions and producing financial statements in a decentralized fashion. We define the accounting for some of the core transactions in DAOs which could be later expanded with other (niche) actions as the purpose of this paper is to discuss the accounting fundamentals relevant to the majority of DAOs. Furthermore, we discuss accounting relevant topics such as verification of transactions, asset valuation, and reporting. Finally, we present numerous implementation frameworks for DAO accounting.


Suggested Citation:

Lommers, Kristof and Ghanchi, Muzammil and Ngo, Kevin and Song, Qirong and Xu, Jiahua, DAO Accounting (August 25, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4200414 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4200414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
C J Brummer , C W Cai
Forthcoming, Stanford Journal of Blockchain Law and Policy. Cachinero Vasiljevic, A. 2022. Private discussions on Telegram chat on the implementation of DAO accounting
Triple entry accounting with blockchain: How far have we come Posted: 2019
Finance Accounting , S Fisher ; Hassan , P De Filippi , K Lommers , J Xu , T A Xu , S Wang , W Ding , J Li , Y Yuan , L Ouyang , F Y Wang , B Wech , C Edmonds , J Edmonds , R Leece , D Zetzsche , W Douglas , P Buckley , T A Xu , J Xu
Decentralized autonomous organizations: concept, model, and applications
Crypto Lending & Borrowing Accounting: DeFi Accounting Series. Blog post on Medium , volume 10 , p. 870 - 878 Posted: 2019
Load more
2 Citations
Christian Ziegler , Syeda Rabab Zehra
Decoding Decentralized Autonomous Organizations: A Content Analysis Approach to Understanding Scoring Platforms
Journal of Risk and Financial Management , volume 16 , issue 7 , p. 330 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Sangtian Guan , Juanjuan Li , Wenwen Ding , Fei-Yue Wang
Parallel Treasury for TRUE DAOs: Model, Indicators and Mechanism*
, p. 7 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
589
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,628
RANK
105,672
2 Citations
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies