Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging the Research Expectations Gap Between Accounting Researchers and Practitioners

43 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2022

Scot Justice

Appalachian State University

Sridhar Ramamoorti

University of Dayton

D. Scott Showalter

North Carolina State University

George W. Krull, Jr.

Grant Thornton LLP (retired)

Date Written: August 31, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the research expectations gap between accounting practitioners and academic researchers that hinders the accounting profession from becoming and being regarded as a learned profession. Using a sample of practicing public accountants and university faculty respondents, we find evidence of a closed loop where practitioners are not likely to read or reference academic accounting journals, although researchers are more likely to read or reference practitioner publications. We also find that practitioners are more likely to read or reference practitioner publications for practice guidance while researchers are more likely to read or reference practitioner publications that are peer reviewed. We trace the roots of the expectations gap to incentive structures and reward systems in academia, the lack of professional experience among newly-graduated PhDs, and decreased opportunities for academic-practitioner collaboration in publishing. We propose some ways in which this expectations gap may be bridged by fostering greater collaboration between accounting researchers and practitioners.

Keywords: Pathways Commission, learned profession, practitioner publications, accounting research

Suggested Citation:

Justice, Scot and Ramamoorti, Sridhar and Showalter, D. Scott and Krull, Jr., George W., Bridging the Research Expectations Gap Between Accounting Researchers and Practitioners (August 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4205646 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4205646
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,413
RANK
270,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies