Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cisco's Cost Sharing Arrangement-Frankenstein Poker

62 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022 Last revised: 1 May 2023

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

This paper evaluates Cisco’s transfer pricing cost sharing arrangement based on forensic economic analysis of public information, including Cisco’s SEC and foreign country regulatory filings, published materials containing insider accounts of Cisco’s operations, books, periodicals and other sources. The paper finds that Cisco appears to have violated U.S. transfer pricing laws beginning in 2009 and later years, in ways that appear to have invalidated its cost sharing arrangement, but which were not detected by the IRS. Potential for tax assessments by the IRS could be as much as $21 billion, according to calculations performed in the paper based on Cisco's results. The company's reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions were $3.1 billion as of July 31, 2021 – reserves that are about 86% less than this federal tax risk. Cisco’s cost sharing arrangement also appeared to violate the economic substance doctrine, and regulations governing the taxation of effectively connected income. The IRS has historically not enforced the cost sharing periodic adjustment regulations of the U.S. tax code found in Section 1.482-7(i)(6), which was effective on January 5, 2009. Companies such as Cisco with “preexisting” cost sharing arrangements were subject to a transition rule under Treasury Regulation Section 1.482-7(m)(1) that, inf complied with, could have protected Cisco against this adjustment. However the company appears to have failed to comply with these rules, triggering its exposure to the indicated periodic adjustment since 2009, possibly thorough 2017, the last year that Cisco is believed to have a cost sharing arrangement.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance and Tax Enforcement

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, Cisco's Cost Sharing Arrangement-Frankenstein Poker (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4206026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
817
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies