Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
eBay's Cost Sharing Arrangement-Frankenstein's Progeny

44 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Stephen L. Curtis

Cross Border Analytics, Inc.

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

This paper performs a forensic analysis of eBay’s transfer pricing cost sharing arrangement based on forensic economic analysis of public information, including eBay’s SEC and foreign country regulatory filings, court proceedings, case studies, published materials containing insider accounts of eBay’s operations, books, periodicals and other sources. The paper finds that eBay appears to have violated U.S. transfer pricing laws in 2009 and later years, in ways that appear to have invalidated its cost sharing arrangement but which were not detected by the IRS. These tax violations appear to have led to the potential for tax assessments by the IRS of as much as $13 billion. The company's reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions were $461 million as of December 31, 2021 – reserves that are about 96% less than this tax adjustment risk. The ability of the IRS to apply periodic adjustments is not limited by any statute of limitations. eBay’s cost sharing arrangement also appeared to violate the economic substance doctrine, and regulations governing the taxation of effectively connected income. The IRS has historically not enforced the periodic adjustment regulations of the U.S. tax code, despite these regulations being mandated by Congress in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and made effective in Treasury Regulation Section 1.482-7(i)(6) on January 5, 2009. Companies such as eBay with “pre-existing” cost sharing arrangements were subject to a transition rule under Treasury Regulation Section 1.482-7(m)(1) that could waive this adjustment, but the company appears to have failed to comply with these rules, triggering exposure to the indicated periodic adjustment.

Keywords: Transfer Pricing, Auditing, Forensic Economics, Tax Compliance and Tax Enforcement

JEL Classification: F23, H26, H32, H83, K34, M42

Suggested Citation:

Curtis, Stephen L, eBay's Cost Sharing Arrangement-Frankenstein's Progeny (June 13, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4206019 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4206019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
624
RANK
572,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies