Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Novel Depreciation Methods

16 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2022

Ercan Akan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kasim Kiraci

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

New depreciation methods are proposed. The methods consist of the Balanced Increasing Depreciation method and the Balanced Decreasing Depreciation method. The proposed depreciation models are different from the depreciation methods in the literature and current practice. In addition, the proposed depreciation models differ from the existing depreciation models in terms of mathematical background and formulation. The methods have been tested on a ship’s depreciation calculation example. Furthermore, the same example is solved by three depreciation methods such as Straight-Line Method of Depreciation , Declining Balance Method of Depreciation and Sum of Years’ Digits Method of Depreciation for the validation testing.

Keywords: Depreciation, Balanced Increasing Depreciation (BID) Method, Balanced Decreasing Depreciation (BDD) Method

Suggested Citation:

Akan, Ercan and Kiraci, Kasim, A Novel Depreciation Methods. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207710
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
442
RANK
576,212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies