Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bitcoin: An Accounting Regime

30 Pages Posted: 2 Sep 2022

Mélissa Fortin

University of Quebec at Montreal (UQAM)

Erica Pimentel

Queen's University

Abstract

The Bitcoin blockchain is a payment system designed to disintermediate financial transactions. While many professional accounting bodies have sounded the alarm about the potential for blockchain technology to simplify accounting bookkeeping, few academic articles have been able to transcend high-level conceptual descriptions and dig deeper into the technological nuances of blockchain technology to assess whether or not, and if so, how, blockchain can undermine the accounting profession and its practices. Drawing on a netnography of the early Bitcoin community from the technology’s formation in 2008 through to the disappearance of its founder in 2011, this paper aims to explore the role of accounting in the development of a new financial system. We propose that Bitcoin is more than a form of digital currency, but rather a new accounting regime that effectively takes accounting expertise away from accountants. Using sophisticated cryptography and advanced computer programming, the Bitcoin blockchain has created new interpretative schema for measuring and recording financial transactions. Bitcoin relies on new types of experts, namely computer programmers and cryptographers, and a new form of expertise that fuses technological know-how with accounting concepts. We find that Bitcoin programmers can co-opt accounting knowledge because these concepts do not constitute a sufficiently esoteric knowledge basis to protect the jurisdictional boundaries of the profession.

Keywords: Bitcoin, accounting regime, accounting profession, expert knowledge

Suggested Citation:

Fortin, Mélissa and Pimentel, Erica, Bitcoin: An Accounting Regime. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4208128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4208128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
549,213
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies