Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inheritance Tax and Valuation

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 249-258

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Markus Diller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Andreas Löffler

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 11, 2012

Abstract

It has long been known in the literature how to include income taxes in the valuation of companies. These taxes can be neutral and therefore do not influence the company value, provided certain conditions are met; essentially, a firm's cash flows have to be taxed the same way as those of a financial investment, which requires the use of economic depreciation. In this paper, the authors clarify how to value a company when its owner becomes liable for inheritance tax. Here, too, this type of tax is irrelevant when all assets are equally taxed. However, if some assets, e.g. business assets, are treated preferentially, which is the case in most European jurisdictions, the company value rises. The authors show that a considerable increase can be observed within realistic parameters for European countries.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: inheritance tax, valuation

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Diller, Markus and Löffler, Andreas, Inheritance Tax and Valuation (October 11, 2012). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 249-258 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226636
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
177
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies