Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deducting Legal Expenses: Unpacking the IRS's Appeal in Mylan

176(9) Tax Notes Federal 1419-1426 (2022)

9 Pages Posted: 17 Oct 2022

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Kim Condon

Blue J Legal

Date Written: August 29, 2022

Abstract

The Tax Court in Mylan v. Commissioner, 156 T.C. 137 (2021) rejected the IRS’s position that expenses incurred in litigating patent disputes under the relevant specialized IP regime were capital expenditures. The IRS now seeks to have the decision remanded with instructions to disallow the deductions. As we will show, the IRS’s position on appeal is aggressive. Our algorithms predict with over 95 percent confidence that the legal expenses at issue in Mylan would have been treated by the courts in the past as ordinary and necessary business expenses and, further, that the expenditures are unlikely to be treated as capital expenditures on appeal.

Keywords: legal expenses, tax deductions, deductibility, machine learning, tax law

JEL Classification: J00, H2, H00

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Condon, Kim, Deducting Legal Expenses: Unpacking the IRS's Appeal in Mylan (August 29, 2022). 176(9) Tax Notes Federal 1419-1426 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4229886
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies