Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A framework for sustainability reporting.

Abeysekera, I. (2022), "A framework for sustainability reporting", Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, Vol. 13 No.6, pp. 1386-1409. https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-08-2021-0316

20 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

Purpose: A Sustainability Reporting Framework must demonstrate that resources are fairly bought and used to support diverse life on earth within habitable ranges. The paper proposes a principle-based sustainability reporting framework that measures, audits, and reports based on sustainability outcomes and impacts as part of the corporate reporting framework.

Study design/methodology/approach: The article draws on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and targets for preparing a reporting framework. It uses Gaia Theory and the Theory of Distributive Justice constructs that align with sustainable development principles to delineate a reporting approach.
Findings: Frameworks that promote sustainability reporting have increasingly embraced UN SDGs, but overly focus on performance promoting inter-firm comparisons. This framework introduces principle-based sustainability reporting where firms demonstrate their chosen contribution to sustainable development using 17 UN SDGs as goal posts.

Originality/value: The framework promotes integrated thinking for firms to engage in principle-based sustainability reporting and provides a road map for sustainability reporting using the SDG Compass logic model.

Research implications/limitations: The conceptual paper presents theoretical constructs that future research can empirically validate to enhance sustainability reporting.

Practical implications: This principle-based Sustainability Reporting Framework is implementable for corporate reporting, where sustainability reporting integrates with the financial and economic intellectual capital reporting frameworks.

Social implications: The framework highlights the importance of acquiring and using resources to distribute justice and fairness. It is a joint project between firms and stakeholders.

Keywords: Gaia Theory, sustainability reporting, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, UN SDGs, Theory of Distributive Justice.

JEL Classification: M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, A framework for sustainability reporting. ( 2022). Abeysekera, I. (2022), "A framework for sustainability reporting", Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, Vol. 13 No.6, pp. 1386-1409. https://doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-08-2021-0316, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4230961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
172
ABSTRACT VIEWS
989
RANK
399,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies