Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IRS Argues Split-Dollar Is Not 'Faire,' but Challenge Is Foiled

Probate & Property, Vol. 36, No. 4, July/Aug. 2022

5 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2022

Justin Miller

Evercore Wealth Management; Golden Gate University School of Law

Alexander Lyden-Horn

Evercore Partners Inc

Date Written: July 2022

Abstract

In Estate of Levine v. Commissioner, 158 T.C. No. 2 (2022), the estate successfully parried an IRS challenge to the valuation of the decedent’s right to repayment of premiums under a split-dollar life insurance arrangement. The IRS argued that the value of such right should be equal to the cash surrender values of the life insurance policies—and their weapons of choice were sections 2036, 2038, and 2703. In an opinion full of dual—or one could argue “duel”—meanings, the court ultimately rebuffed the IRS’s valuation challenges because (1) the decedent retained no power to terminate the policies and (2) the person with the power to do so was constrained by fiduciary obligations.

Keywords: life, insurance, split-dollar, fiduciary, tax, estate, trust

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Justin and Lyden-Horn, Alexander, IRS Argues Split-Dollar Is Not 'Faire,' but Challenge Is Foiled (July 2022). Probate & Property, Vol. 36, No. 4, July/Aug. 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4241379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
406
RANK
668,003
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies