Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Model Building and Description Using the Agent-Based Computational Economics Framework for Accounting

Takashima, K., & Yagi, I. (2024). Model building and description using the agent-based computational economics framework for accounting. Journal of Information Processing, 32, 10-21.

24 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2022 Last revised: 21 Apr 2024

Kosei Takashima

Hakuoh University; NAGAOKA UNIVERSITY Faculty of Economics and Management

Isao Yagi

Kogakuin University

Date Written: October 10, 2022

Abstract

Agent-based computational economics (ACE) has been attracting attention in recent years. This method, however, is challenging because of the complexity of the model’s structure due to the coexistence of systems for decision-making and those involved in financial transactions. Further, ACE requires researchers to have skills in both the social sciences and information engineering. Therefore, programming for the resulting simulations requires a high skill level. This study developed an accounting-related framework extending bookkeeping notation and functionality; it improves the working efficiency of ACE research through accounting-related concepts that represent the relationships between financial entities in the model. Introducing accounting-related systems can enable the separation of decision-making systems from those involved in financial transactions. This improves effectiveness during the model design, programming, and simulation phases. Further, at the stage of results publication, this study enables describing a model that clearly expresses who performs what actions to whom and how the condition variables of each entity change without misinterpretation because of such actions. Based on a sample artificial macroeconomic model, this study presents a real-world example of modeling using accounting-related tables.

Keywords: Agent-Based Computational Economics, Agent-Based Models, Economics, Macroeconomics,Accounting, Modeling

JEL Classification: C63,C60,C69

Suggested Citation:

Takashima, Kosei and Yagi, Isao, Model Building and Description Using the Agent-Based Computational Economics Framework for Accounting (October 10, 2022). Takashima, K., & Yagi, I. (2024). Model building and description using the agent-based computational economics framework for accounting. Journal of Information Processing, 32, 10-21., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4243024 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4243024
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Banks , I I Carson , J S Barry , L
Discrete-event system simulation Posted: 2005
D C Barton , E D Eidson , D A Schoenwald , K L Stamber , R Reinert
Aspen-EE: An agent-based model of infrastructure interdependency (No. SAND
Sandia National Lab. (SNL-NM) Posted: 2000
SNL-CA)
S M Biju
Difficulties in understanding object-oriented programming concepts
Innovations and Advances in Computer, Information, Systems Sciences, and Engineering , p. 319 - 326 Posted: 2013
Load more
1 Citations
Kosei Takashima , Isao Yagi
Multilayered Emergent Phenomena Caused by Basic Income and Labor Supply on the Wider Economic System
Applied Sciences , volume 13 , issue 13 , p. 7588 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
697
RANK
416,133
1 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies