Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Record Keeping Practices and Performance of Small Scale Enterprises in Zaria Metropolis, Kaduna State-Nigeria

(2018) Lapai International Journal of Management and Social Sciences, published by the Faculty of Management and Social Sciences, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai

22 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2022

Maarufah Abdulmalik Mohammed

Department of Accounting, ABU Business School, Ahmadu Bello University

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The practice of record keeping in Nigeria has been below expectation which as such render this core section inactive in terms of meeting the set goals (profit making, decision making, business performance, Competence and strength of the business, and sourcing for funds) of the SSE. This paper aims to examine the relationship between the performance of SSEs and record-keeping practices among SSEs operating in Zaria, Kaduna State-Nigeria. The study administered 250 questionnaires to the SSE owners in the year 2017. The result of binary coding shows that knowledge/skills and financing mix have significant positive relationships with SSE record-keeping practice. Also, ease of application procedures significantly negatively impacts SSE record-keeping practice. Conversely, Business performance and Management competence have insignificant positive relationships with SSE record-keeping practice. The research concludes that there is a relationship between performance and record-keeping practice among SSEs operating in Zaria, Kaduna State-Nigeria. The study recommends that Nigeria Government should also provide regulations that will enforce mandatory returns of SSEs' financial reports. Finally, the Nigerian government and other financial bodies should provide easy funds to small-scale enterprise owners with updated records. It further recommends that small-scale business owners should embrace record-keeping for the growth of their business, by so doing they have to be educated and have the knowledge of simple accounting or on the other hand, they can hire professional accountants to do the job for them.

Keywords: Performance, Record Keeping, SSEs

Suggested Citation:

Mohammed, Maarufah Abdulmalik, Record Keeping Practices and Performance of Small Scale Enterprises in Zaria Metropolis, Kaduna State-Nigeria (October 1, 2018). (2018) Lapai International Journal of Management and Social Sciences, published by the Faculty of Management and Social Sciences, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4263414
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
564,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies