Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Cracking Open' the Tax Casebook: Genre, Ideological Closure, and the Earned Income Tax Credit

94 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2022

Diane Kemker

Pepperdine University - Rick J. Caruso School of Law; Southern University Law Center

Date Written: November 10, 2022

Abstract

The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) is a large federal grant program that operates as a “negative income tax” for America’s poorest working taxpayers. It also attracts a grossly disproportionate share of IRS enforcement attention, under audit policies that disparately impact poor Black families and communities. One might think that a topic like this, a credit claimed by tens of millions of American taxpayers every year and resulting in hundreds of thousands of audits, would receive robust coverage in the casebooks from which basic federal income tax courses are typically taught in law school. But in three leading casebooks, including one that is over 1000 pages in length and another that expressly states an intention to address race and gender issues in tax law, the entire treatment of the EITC takes up no more than a page or two.

When the book from which law students learn tax law relegates the vital interests of tens of millions of the poorest (often Black) Americans to little more than a footnote, a message is sent about EITC recipients and their tax-related legal rights, of which Critical Tax scholars (and teachers) should take note. But how to respond? In this Article, I use concepts of genre and ideological closure, drawn from literary theory, to argue that familiar responses to problems in a casebook (revision, supplementation, critiquing and “teaching against” the text) will not suffice. Instead, interventions that expose the processes of ideological closure and more radically “crack open” the text offer greater promise for releasing the generative, equality-minded, and liberatory potential of tax law taught critically.

Keywords: pedagogy, legal education, taxation, poverty, literary theory, critical theory, critical legal studies, critical tax

Suggested Citation:

Kemker, Diane, 'Cracking Open' the Tax Casebook: Genre, Ideological Closure, and the Earned Income Tax Credit (November 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4274435 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4274435
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,023
RANK
490,153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies