Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Misnomer of Section 501(c)(3): The Exclusivity Requirement

50 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2022

Brooke Shroyer

University of Florida Levin College of Law

Date Written: May 12, 2022

Abstract

A 501(c)(3) organization is exempt from income tax if it meets the statutory and regulatory requirements prescribed in the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) and the Treasury Regulations (“Regulations”), respectively. Section 501(c)(3) prescribes the five requirements for exemption and the Regulations attempt to define such requirements with undefined additional requisites–creating a circular interpretation of these authorities. The two overarching requirements found in the Code are that a 501(c)(3) organization must be both organized and operated exclusively for an exempt purpose. Section 501(c)(3) includes three supplemental conditions for both the organizational and operational requirements: no private inurement; no substantial lobbying; and no political activity.

The Regulations conceptualize the “exclusively” requirement, not in its literal sense, but as including a cushion of certain permissible activities which do not further an exempt purpose so long as they remain not more than an “insubstantial part” of the organization’s total activities. The three aforementioned conditions found at the end of Section 501(c)(3), among others found throughout the Code and Regulations, offer insight as to what non-furthering activities may be included in this “insubstantiality” cushion.

This study defines all five requirements for income tax exemption under Section 501(c)(3) and focuses on the aforementioned ambiguities by analyzing Regulations and applicable case law. It also identifies certain non-furthering activities included in the “insubstantiality” cushion to the “exclusively” requirement.

Keywords: Section 501(c)(3), tax-exempt organizations, Internal Revenue Code, Treasury Regulations, exempt purpose, private inurement, lobbying, political activity, insubstantial

JEL Classification: K34, K10, K20, L30, L39

Suggested Citation:

Shroyer, Brooke, The Misnomer of Section 501(c)(3): The Exclusivity Requirement (May 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4275206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4275206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
RANK
778,997
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies