Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Collection Due Process At 25: A Still Important and Needed Check On IRS Collection Power

Pittsburgh Tax Review, Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 7 Dec 2022 Last revised: 21 Feb 2023

Leslie Book

Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law

Date Written: November 29, 2022

Abstract

The modern tax collection system has its origin in the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998. RRA 98’s CDP provisions radically changed the relationship between the IRS and taxpayers in the collection process. One key aspect of CDP was its opening up some aspects of IRS collection determinations to judicial review.

Was subjecting some previously unreviewable IRS collection decisions to the possibility of judicial review a positive development? Any additional procedural requirements increase agency costs. The same is true of CDP. The costs of CDP include agency resources to satisfy CDP’s notice requirement, agency and judicial costs to satisfy hearing requirements, and an impact on collections when recalcitrant taxpayers use CDP to avoid or delay paying an assessed liability.

A steady drumbeat of academics has highlighted those costs. In the years following its enactment, I offered my views as to why I felt CDP, while not without some flaws, was a positive step for tax administration.

I continue to believe that CDP provides a needed systemic check on the IRS’s still broad collection powers. This Article builds on and expands my earlier work by exploring recent scholarship that considers how the deferential court review of agency practice and the wise use of remand power provide distinct benefits for high-volume agency adjudications. That scholarship emphasizes how the deferential abuse of discretion review that is the default standard in administrative law allows for the judiciary to engage with an administrative agency and provide needed oversight.

In this article, I also propose modest changes to CDP so that it can better reflect taxpayer rights, an important benchmark following the 2015 codification of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights that the IRS had administratively adopted in 2014.

Keywords: IRS, CDP, tax collection, judicial review, remand,

JEL Classification: K34, K23

Suggested Citation:

Book, Leslie, Collection Due Process At 25: A Still Important and Needed Check On IRS Collection Power (November 29, 2022). Pittsburgh Tax Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4288491
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
158
ABSTRACT VIEWS
736
RANK
429,779
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies