Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Accounting Practices in Financial & Non-Financial Sectors and Its Applicability in Bangladesh

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Muhaiminul Islam

Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Science & Technology University

Nahin Rahman

Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Science & Technology University

Date Written: December 3, 2022

Abstract

Green accounting users are increasingly interested in the issue of material impact on an organization's financial statements and benefits to stakeholders. The paper generally deals with public entities that are required by law to be disclosed in accounts, but it should bear in mind some kind of environmental impact. On other hand, corporate activities are not showing the impact on the financial statement.This paper discusses green accounting and its practice in Bangladesh, what the status of green accounting in Bangladesh is and how well they are being applied in all areas. Green accounting deals with environmental information and environmental systems and is giving new directions for environmental protection. It reflects CSR, environmental spending and reporting, corporate governance as well as natural resources and environmental management. It focuses on green accounting practices and standards. It is widely practiced in developed countries, but its practice is not significant enough in low income countries (LDCs) like Bangladesh. The limitations of green accounting practice in Bangladesh that people think it is expensive but we have no eye on its negative impact on the environment today. In addition to green accounting calculations, green indicators such as green GDP, EDP, green capital & products. The public and private sectors have to come forward and work together to improve the existing green accounting practices, otherwise the system cannot function properly.

Keywords: Green accounting, Environmental accounting, Environmental Corporate & financial accounting, Green Industry, Environmental Standards & Regulation.

Suggested Citation:

Islam, Muhaiminul and Rahman, Nahin, Green Accounting Practices in Financial & Non-Financial Sectors and Its Applicability in Bangladesh (December 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4292315
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
461
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Resource Based Strategy & Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies