Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Report on Prediction of the Share Price (An Analysis of Colgate Palmolive) (Trading as CL in NYSE)

11 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Sanjeep kumar Dhital

Independent

Date Written: November 12, 2021

Abstract

The report has tried to predict the share price of Colgate Palmolive on the basis of historical data. The report consists of the detailed analysis of the past data and its credibility in order to predict the future price changes in the share price of the Colgate Palmolive. Colgate Palmolive is the American worldwide company that deals with the production and distribution of household, healthcare and various personal care products. The company is regarded as trusted and recognize brand and been continually serving hundreds of millions of customers across 220 countries.

In the process of analysing the data, daily data has been used as a base. During the process, the report has tried to identify the link by analysing correlation coefficient between the share price movements in a day to the share price changed in next day of the company. This has been calculated by using multiple linear regression model. In the process of establishing the link, the report has attempted on checking the Variance Inflation Factor (VIF), residual analysis, analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and also the adjusted R2.

Suggested Citation:

Dhital, Sanjeep kumar, A Report on Prediction of the Share Price (An Analysis of Colgate Palmolive) (Trading as CL in NYSE) (November 12, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4298837 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4298837
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies