Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Worker Status: How Can We Get It Working for Australia’s Tax System?

(2022) Australian Tax Review, 51(4): 293-319.

Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming

6 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2022

Brett Freudenberg

Curtin University - Curtin Law School; Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith University - Griffith Law School

Date Written: December 14, 2022

Abstract

A critical issue for tax and regulatory compliance is determining a worker’s status as an employee, independent contractor or something else. This issue has been the subject of recent litigation and given the rise of the gig economy is likely to become more acute as more people are given the ability to undertake entrepreneurial activities. This article will explore the current issues that concern “worker status” and some of the recent case law, as well as the potential influences this distinction can have on the worker, the engaging entity, government agencies and society as a whole. A number of recommendations are formulated in terms of systems administered by the tax office as a possible way to provide greater certainty, knowledge and equity in this area.

Note: This publication is copyright. Other than for the purposes of and subject to the conditions prescribed under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), no part of it may in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, microcopying, photocopying, recording or otherwise) be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted without prior written permission. Enquiries should be addressed to Thomson Reuters (Professional) Australia Limited. PO Box 3502, Rozelle NSW 2039. legal.thomsonreuters.com.au

This article was first published by Thomson Reuters in the Australian Tax Review and should be cited as Brett Freudenberg, Worker Status: How Can We Get It Working for Australia’s Tax System?, (2022), 51, AT Rev, 293.

For all subscription inquiries please phone, from Australia: 1300 304 195, from Overseas: +61 2 8587 7980 or online at legal.thomsonreuters.com.au/search.

The official PDF version of this article can also be purchased separately from Thomson Reuters at http://sites.thomsonreuters.com.au/journals/subscribe‐or‐purchase.

Keywords: Worker, employee, contractor, tax, Australia

JEL Classification: K34, L20

Suggested Citation:

Freudenberg, Brett, Worker Status: How Can We Get It Working for Australia’s Tax System? (December 14, 2022). (2022) Australian Tax Review, 51(4): 293-319., Griffith University Law School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4301673
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
565
RANK
528,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies