Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Newsletter - New Tax Regime for Crypto-Assets under the Personal Income Tax for 2023 in Portugal

16 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Diogo Pereira Coelho

University of Seville - Facultad de Derecho; University of Lisbon

Date Written: December 14, 2022

Abstract

The tax regime for crypto-assets within the scope of the personal income tax contained in the proposed state budget for 20231 was changed by the proposed amendment presented by the political party PS on 11.11.222 (approved in parliament on 11.23.22 ). Unlike the initial proposal, which included serious inaccuracies, the new regime (which is still far from perfect) appears to respond to some practical questions and presents exemptions that, eventually, may contribute to boosting the development of this sector in Portugal.

Keywords: Cryptoassets; Taxation; Tax Law; Blockchain; Fintech

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Pereira Coelho, Diogo, Newsletter - New Tax Regime for Crypto-Assets under the Personal Income Tax for 2023 in Portugal (December 14, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4303205 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4303205
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
730
RANK
531,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies