Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What is Complete Estate Planning for a Proprietor’s 401(k) Plan Benefits?

55 NYSBA TRUSTS AND ESTATES J. No. 4 (2022)

6 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2022

Albert Feuer

Law Offices of Albert Feuer

Date Written: December 15, 2022

Abstract

The estate planning of an individual who owns a professional or other enterprise that maintains a tax-advantaged plan, such as a self-directed 401(k) plan, requires more than the completion and filing of the individual’s plan beneficiary designations.

Complete planning requires that measures also be taken so that soon after the death of the individual a person be authorized to invest plan assets, determine the plan beneficiary(ies) and benefit entitlements, give notifications of such determinations, and make plan distributions that the beneficiary(ies) may choose.

If this is not done, the delay in making investment decisions and giving the individual’s beneficiary(ies) access to their plan benefits may place those benefits at substantial risk and expose the individual’s estate to fiduciary liability claims.

Keywords: Retirement, estate planning, financial planning, pensions, savings, 401(k) plans, profit-sharing plans, fiduciary, administrator, investment manager, designations, IRA, participant, beneficiary, income tax, tax deferral

JEL Classification: J32, K34, K36, K39

Suggested Citation:

Feuer, Albert, What is Complete Estate Planning for a Proprietor’s 401(k) Plan Benefits? (December 15, 2022). 55 NYSBA TRUSTS AND ESTATES J. No. 4 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304524
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
693
RANK
531,414
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies