Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitization, Digitalization and Digital Transformation in Accounting, Electronic Commerce and Supply Chains

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming

18 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2022

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: December 19, 2022

Abstract

This paper provides some basic definitions associated with digital transformation in organizations and applies those definitions to accounting, electronic commerce and supply chains. We also drilldown on the dimensions associated with digital transformation, including digital everywhere, integration (across applications and with customers and partners) and the need to reengineer processes. I examine several examples of processes ranging from Digitization to Digital Transformation. I analyze a number of types of digital transformations. Finally, I examine the role of people in digitally transformed organizations (including humanj-in-the-loop) and some technologies that are important to continued evolution of digitally transformed organizations.

Keywords: Digital Transformation, Digitization, Digitalization, Digital Transformation Hierarchy, Digital Transformation in Accounting and Auditing, Digital Everywhere, Big Data Lake, Single Source of the Truth, Big Data, Supply Chains, Internet of Things

JEL Classification: l, Y8

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., Digitization, Digitalization and Digital Transformation in Accounting, Electronic Commerce and Supply Chains (December 19, 2022). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4307305 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4307305
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
896
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,682
RANK
60,937
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies