Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
ESG Modelling Framework: Quantification and Measurement of ESG Factors in the Profit and Loss Statement

39 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2023

Christian Fuat J. Ecer

Dr. Ecer Strategy and M&A

Date Written: January 3, 2023

Abstract

This paper suggests a framework to organically quantify and measure a firm’s strategic and operational environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities. Using the standard profit and loss statement, the framework is a guide through each financial line item, analysing incremental differences between two potential strategic paths for a firm: an as-is strategy and a green strategy. The objective of the framework is to guide financial decision-makers to model two business cases by helping estimate the opportunity costs of green strategies. First, the as-is business case quantifies the firm’s strategic path as a continuation of its historical and current strategic choices, resulting in a set of assumptions about product volumes expected to be sold, pricing, and all cost positions. Second, the green business case adjusts the assumption positively or negatively for each financial line item towards the opportunity and risk that the green strategy offers. The incremental analysis of volumes, willingness to pay (price), cost of goods sold, operational costs, personnel expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses quantifies ESG activities in terms of operating profit, referred to as green synergy in this paper, to underline that profit is a function of interacting and cooperating stakeholders, including people and the planet.

Keywords: Corporate Finance and Governance, Capital Budgeting, Valuation, Accounting, Strategy

JEL Classification: G31, G32, M4, O16

Suggested Citation:

Ecer, Christian Fuat J., ESG Modelling Framework: Quantification and Measurement of ESG Factors in the Profit and Loss Statement (January 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4326728 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4326728
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
593
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,048
RANK
104,761
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies