Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analyzing the Production Process of Lating Cost of Production Approach

9 Pages Posted: 25 Jan 2023

Andrew Tenrijaya

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Date Written: January 23, 2023

Abstract

Aspects of production and cost calculation are very important in a business activity that is oriented towards the sale of a product. Mekar Sari home industry does production separately in two places with a long distance, this is done for cost savings. The calculation of the cost of goods produced is not in accordance with the rules of cost accounting, which has an impact on the inaccurate policy making that is implemented. With the above problems, this study aims to determine the effect of the production process on the cost of goods produced at Home Industry Mekar Sari, Lemahdhuwur Village, Kwarasan District, Kebumen Regency. This research is a type of qualitative research, using a qualitative descriptive approach, meaning that the data collected is not in t he form of numbers but the data is in the form of interview scripts, field notes, pictures. Data sources were obtained using methods, observation, interviews, and documentation. The analysis used by researchers is data reduction, data presentation and conclusion drawing. Based on the results of the study, it shows that the production activities of the Lanting Bumbu Mekar Sari Home industry carry out their production activities including the type of production of Intermittent manufacturing, with the process u sing lay out, namely process lay out, production activities carried out based on the level of demand and availability of raw materials. With the level of production goes hand in hand with market demand, when market demand increases, lanting production also increases and vice versa. The calculation of the cost of production calculated using the company method is IDR 42,149,605 and according to the full costing method is IDR 48,507,675. This is because in the calculation of factory overhead costs the company does not take into account some costs into the cost of production such as maintenance costs, electricity costs, packaging costs which should be included in product overhead costs to determine the cost of production. This causes overhead costs to decrease a nd the cost of goods manufactured to be lower than it actually is.

Keywords: Product costs, selling price & variable costing

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Tenrijaya, Andrew, Analyzing the Production Process of Lating Cost of Production Approach (January 23, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4334830 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4334830
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
516
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies