Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Operationalization of Environmental Management Accounting within Sierra Mineral Holdings Limited in Sierra Leone

24 Pages Posted: 31 Jan 2023

Dr. Abu Kai Kamara

University of Sierra Leone - Fourah Bay College

Eugene Efayomi Pratt

University of Sierra Leone - School of Post Graduate Studies

Date Written: January 30, 2023

Abstract

This study provides an assessment of the operationalization of Environmental Management Accounting (EMA) at Sierra Mineral Holdings Limited in Sierra Leone. Explicitly, this piece of work suggests strategies for the application of environmental management accounting systems practices that have been adopted by the management and how corporate social responsibilities are adopted. Although the findings of this study indicated that there is a high responsiveness to the importance and effectiveness of environmental management accounting and the application of codes of best practices to environmental practice. However, the government being the regulatory body should require the mining company to have a mitigation plan with clearly mapped out strategies that would be implemented to minimize the misery to endanger species not to be extinct in the near future, and Topography and Noise performance indicators should be closely monitored by the government. The poor performance of the company not having a well-coordinated environmental system in place and the control systems to reduce emissions to a tolerable level should be also monitored by the government as these factors have the potential to cause serious environmental degradation and will have a negative effect on human lives in the community. The management of Sierra Mineral Holdings Limited should prepare a mitigation plan with clearly mapped-out strategies with deliverable timelines on the Wildlife Protected Areas and Cultural Properties protection; and enhance Topography and Noise indicators to improve the application of the Code of Best Practice and application of Environmental Management Accounting to an acceptable norm.

Keywords: Environmental Management Accounting (EMA), Operationalization, Environmental Stakeholders

Suggested Citation:

Kamara, Abu Kai and Pratt, Eugene Efayomi, A Study on the Operationalization of Environmental Management Accounting within Sierra Mineral Holdings Limited in Sierra Leone (January 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4343037 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4343037
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
578
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies