Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Analysis of Afc Ajax: Is the Club Struggling Financially?

39 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024

Haitham Nobanee

Abu Dhabi University; University of Oxford; University of Liverpool

Khalil Al Abbasi

Independent

Abdallah Zourob

Independent

Mohammed Zourob

Independent

Majed Mostafa

Independent

Saida Rufat Salman

Independent

Hessa Almarr

Independent

Date Written: February 19, 2023

Abstract

This report gives a comprehensive overview of AFC Ajax's business operations. All data is given in a thorough and straightforward style. The study has financial data, an industry analysis, and expert comments. The study also allows for direct comparisons involving AFC Ajax and its rivals. This gives readers a comprehensive idea of AFC Ajax’s position within the Media Industry. The report covers complete data on AFC Ajax that supplies unparalleled insight into the corporation's internal business environment. information on the company's origins, affiliates, industry, services, and history. The AFC Ajax financial analysis includes the financial statements and ratio trend-charts, along with yearly and periodic balance sheets and future revenues. The report describes the primary financial parameters relevant to the company's financial performance, marginal analysis, inventory turnover, credit ratios, and lengthy stability. This kind of properly accounted data will aid and boost the choice making processes of the reader's business. In the section describing AFC Ajax and the sector, the financial ratios of the firm are contrasted to those of its rivals and the market. Managing the business climate will be eased by a comprehensive study of the market and the corporation's rivals, as well as data on the dependent and independent variables affecting the core competence. The business and sales operations of a firm will receive help from buying knowledge of its rivals' operations.

Keywords: Liquidity Ratios, Current Ratios, Quick Ratios, Cash Ratios, Activity Ratios, Inventory Turnover, Receivable Turnover, Total Asset Turnover, Leverage Ratios, Debt Ratios, Time Interest Earned Ratio, Profitability Ratios, Assets, Equity, Return on Investment, Shareholders Wealth

JEL Classification: G1

Suggested Citation:

Nobanee, Haitham and Al Abbasi, Khalil and Zourob, Abdallah and Zourob, Mohammed and Mostafa, Majed and Salman, Saida Rufat and Almarr, Hessa, Financial Analysis of Afc Ajax: Is the Club Struggling Financially? (February 19, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4364115 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4364115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
104
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
601,250
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies