Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Working Capital Management – Theory and Practice

Ramesh Birajdar, Working Capital Management – Theory and Practice, International Journal of Accounting and Financial Management Research and Development (IJAFMRD). 1(1), 2023. pp. 1-7, DOI: https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/BDEPR

7 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2023

Ramesh Birajdar

KPCL-Kirloskar Pneumatic Company Ltd, India

Date Written: March 25, 2023

Abstract

Working capital management is always crucial in any business. Efficiency of working capital is determined based various tools used by the companies. However in practice, companies do follow different tools to reduce working capital which is directly impacting profitability of the company. Whether to adopt aggressive policy or lenient policy is exclusively depends on the company and it is vary from business to business and company to company.

Keywords: working capital, Debtors bad debt policy, Efficiency of working capital

Suggested Citation:

Birajdar, Ramesh, Working Capital Management – Theory and Practice (March 25, 2023). Ramesh Birajdar, Working Capital Management – Theory and Practice, International Journal of Accounting and Financial Management Research and Development (IJAFMRD). 1(1), 2023. pp. 1-7, DOI: https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/BDEPR, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4399780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
660
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,587
RANK
91,345
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Finance Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies