Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Entities Contracted To Medical Schemes For Auditing Services In South Africa

7 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2023

Michael Mncedisi Willie

Council for Medical Schemes

Date Written: April 14, 2023

Abstract

Audit firms are essential in ensuring companies’ financial statements are reliable and accurate. The Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA) regulates the audit profession in South Africa. The IRBA sets auditing and ethical standards and oversees the registration and monitoring of auditors and audit firms. According to a 2020 report by the IRBA, there are over 4,200 registered auditors and more than 400 registered audit firms in South Africa. The Big Four audit firms (PwC, KPMG, Deloitte, and EY) dominate the audit market. Increasing the inclusion of historically underrepresented groups, such as black and female auditors, in the auditing profession has been a significant focus of developing auditing services in South Africa in recent years. There have been calls for reform in the auditing industry in South Africa, with some advocating for increased regulation and oversight to ensure that audit firms fulfill their responsibilities to the public interest. However, there remains a gap in tools used to assess, monitor, and increase transformation initiatives in auditing services. This study review examines the status of entities contracted to medical schemes auditing services to determine the number of players and the level of transformation and market dominance in the medical schemes. A select handful of audit firms dominate the market, impacting how the medical scheme industry transforms. According to this report, PwC Inc. or Deloitte & Touche accounts for nine out of 10 beneficiaries of medical schemes. According to the study’s findings, the Board of Trustees (BoT) can play a significant role in ensuring that other competitors are provided with an equal opportunity to compete for auditing services in the medical scheme’s environment. Contracting of auditing firms by the BoT, in particular schemes contracted to the same administrator, needs further exploration from a contract management and value-add perspective.

Keywords: Medical Schemes, Auditing, South Africa, Board of Trustees

JEL Classification: G18, G10, G34, G32, F3, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Willie, Michael Mncedisi, A Review of Entities Contracted To Medical Schemes For Auditing Services In South Africa (April 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4418537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4418537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
792
RANK
677,757
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Political Science eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies