Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Three ChatBots: BlenderBot, ChatGPT and LaMDA

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming

23 Pages Posted: 21 Apr 2023

Daniel E. O'Leary

University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; University of Southern California - Leventhal School of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2023

Abstract

Google, Facebook, OpenAI and others, have released access to versions of language chatbots that they have developed. These chatbots have been trained on massive amounts of text using neural networks for language processing. Using an approach similar to security penetration testing, this paper investigates and compares three different chatbots, assessing potential strengths and limitations of these systems. The paper presents several findings, including a comparison of those systems across answers for common question, an analysis of the use of names and activities to guide discussion in two systems, an analysis of the extent of differences in responses, arising from “regeneration” of a question, the determination of a weakness in a system of knowing “who” invented something, development of a potential new subfield, sensitive topic classifiers and an analysis of some of the implications of these findings.

Keywords: BlenderBot, ChatGPT, LaMDA, Chatbots, Case-Based Reasoning., Expert Systems, Enterprise Systems, Education, Ethics

Suggested Citation:

O'Leary, Daniel E., An Analysis of Three ChatBots: BlenderBot, ChatGPT and LaMDA (February 1, 2023). USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Sponsored by iORB, No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4424953 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4424953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
415
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,935
RANK
161,684
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

USC Marshall School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies