Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Budgeting in a Law Firm a Contemporary Management Accounting Approach

12 Pages Posted: 10 May 2023

Maciej Tąkiel

Koźmiński University

Dominik Wagner

TIGGES Rechtsanwälte

Paweł Dąbrowski

Koźmiński University

Date Written: April 21, 2023

Abstract

This paper represents the first comprehensive examination of the possible implementation of the Beyond Budgeting concept in a law firm setting. As such, it provides a unique contribution to the literature, filling a significant gap in the current knowledge base and offering valuable insights for practitioners, academics, and policymakers alike.

The Beyond Budgeting concept is introduced along with its historical origins, basic principles, and real-world success stories, while also discussing the limitations and criticisms it faces. The role of management accounting in the implementation of Beyond Budgeting is explored, as well as the potential future implications for the field. The paper concludes with recommendations for law firms considering the adoption of this approach.

Keywords: Beyond Budgeting; Law Firm, Management Accounting; Law Firm Budget; Law Firm Management

Suggested Citation:

Tąkiel, Maciej and Wagner, Dominik and Dąbrowski, Paweł, Beyond Budgeting in a Law Firm a Contemporary Management Accounting Approach (April 21, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4425480 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4425480
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,122
RANK
409,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Information Systems Legislation & Regulations eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies