Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
IFRS and U.S. GAAP: Differences and Convergence

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 11(1), 1-31 (2010)

31 Pages Posted: 4 May 2023

Obeua S Persons

Rider University

Date Written: 2010

Abstract

This paper describes selected major differences between International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and completed convergence projects of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as of March, 2010. These selected differences pertain to the following accounting issues: fundamental framework, inventories, property, plant and equipment, intangibles with finite useful life, impairment of assets, leases, cash flows statement, contingent liabilities and assets, financial instruments, income taxes, derecognition of financial assets, consolidated financial statements, revenue recognition, and employee benefits. A short discussion question and an answer to enhance a class discussion are also provided for most of these issues. For the completed convergence projects, they are categorized into IFRS converged with U.S. GAAP (five projects), U.S. GAAP converged with IFRS (six projects), and convergence as a result of joint projects between FASB and IASB (two projects and a completed first phase of two major projects). Two convergence projects expected to become final standards later in 2010 are also discussed. Accounting educators should definitely try to incorporate these differences and the convergence outcomes into their classes.

Keywords: IFRS, GAAP, convergence

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Persons, Obeua S, IFRS and U.S. GAAP: Differences and Convergence ( 2010). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, 11(1), 1-31 (2010), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
521
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,321
RANK
123,378
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies