Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Disclosure of Cryptoassets in Japanese Listed Companies and Proposals for Japanese Accounting Standards.

17 Pages Posted: 24 May 2023

Munehiko Yanagida

Independent

Date Written: May 7, 2023

Abstract

The accounting treatment of cryptoassets is based on Practical Solution No. 38 Accounting for Virtual Currencies under the Funds Settlement Act ("Practical Solution"), which was published by the Accounting Standards Board of Japan in 2018. The process is based on the
The PITF was pioneered before the IFRS and US GAAP treatments were presented as 'Tentative Treatment', limiting the purpose of holding cryptoassets to the same as when they are held for trading purposes. At the time the PITF was established, there were few holdings in companies and the accounting standard was based on the assumption that the assets were held for investment purposes. However, this is a different and unique accounting treatment compared to the subsequent IFRS and US GAAP, which account for non-trading purposes as intangible assets, valued at acquisition cost and impaired if the market value falls below the book value. As a result, many foreign listed companies account for them as intangible assets at acquisition cost in accordance with IFRS and US GAAP.
The accounting treatment of cryptoassets in companies in Japan is based on the assumption that they are held for trading purposes, but there are also cases of holding for settlement purposes and other purposes and long-term holdings, and new business models are emerging rather than being standardised, while the number of companies holding cryptoassets in listed companies in Japan is increasing. For new business models, it will be necessary to consider accounting treatment based on the nature of the business model.
In cases where the assets are held for business purposes, such as for payment, or in the case of long-term holdings, it would be necessary to treat them as if they were available for sale, rather than only for trading purposes, in terms of securities. However, if impairment is to be carried out as an intangible asset, as in the US, the existence of unrealised profits that do not appear in the valuation gains on the balance sheet would be undesirable in order to estimate the risk of the company in question. In addition, the amount of impairment may exceed the profit of the company's core business, despite the existence of unrealised profit, and this may not represent the actual situation of the company.
In light of the above, the accounting treatment of cryptoassets shall be divided according to the purpose for which they are held, with trading assets being valued at fair value as before and the relevant gain or loss being treated as profit or loss in the current period, and non-trading assets being newly established and treated as intangible assets, while cryptoassets with an active market are treated as intangible assets, In view of the volatility, it would be preferable to assess them at fair value and not include the relevant gains or losses in profit or loss for the period as other comprehensive income.

Keywords: Crpto Assets, Accounting, Discosure, Japan

Suggested Citation:

Yanagida, Munehiko, Accounting and Disclosure of Cryptoassets in Japanese Listed Companies and Proposals for Japanese Accounting Standards. (May 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4440393 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4440393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,825
RANK
371,877
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Investing eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies