Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advance Rulings on Classification, Origin and Valuation

22 Pages Posted: 11 May 2023

Samuel Tuyisenge

Independent

Date Written: May 10, 2023

Abstract

Advance rulings helps the applicant in planning his activities, which are liable for payment of tax, well in advance. Advance rulings also brings certainty in determining the tax liability, as the ruling given by the Authority for Advance Ruling is binding on the applicant as well as Government authorities. In addition to that, also advance rulings helps in avoiding long drawn and expensive litigation at a later date as it provide certainty and transparency to a taxpayer with respect to an issue which may potentially cause a dispute with the tax administration. However, on the other hand, it can be argued that with incorrect or inappropriate rulings there will be risk of tax base erosion and also at the same time the system can lead to privatization of tax law. In this regard, by referring to different international instruments, this paper articulates more on advance rulings on classification, origin and valuation by putting much emphasis on their procedural aspects, advantages and disadvantages.

Keywords: Advance rulings, Advance ruling on classification, Advance ruling on origin, advance ruling on valuation, Tax.

Suggested Citation:

Tuyisenge, Samuel, Advance Rulings on Classification, Origin and Valuation (May 10, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4444591 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4444591
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
713
RANK
528,080
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies