Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Capital Shifts within Tontine Partnerships: Immediate Taxation, Deferral, or Exclusion?

22 Pages Posted: 19 May 2023

John C. Nelson, Jr.

Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell, LLP; University of Mississippi - School of Law

Date Written: May 14, 2023

Abstract

Tontine partnerships are a fascinating subject with many intricacies and an intriguing history. However, if these entities are ever to regain the massive popularity they once saw, investors will first demand clarity regarding their taxation. More specifically, when a partner of a tontine partnership dies, his capital account shifts automatically to the other surviving partners, and the taxation of these capital shifts is uncertain. This Article seeks to provide clarity by examining three potential methods of taxing these capital shifts, prior to arguing for the option that best complies with modern principles of tax law. Accordingly, this Article begins with an overview of the mechanics of a tontine partnership and a summary of the fascinating history of these entities. Next, this Article turns to a discussion of the tax issue, providing a numerical example that is implemented throughout the Article. This Article then proposes three possible methods of taxing these capital shifts: (1) immediate taxation, (2) deferral, or (3) exclusion. Finally, this Article closes with an argument that the deferral method is the most appropriate option and should be adopted as the primary method for taxing the capital shifts that occur amongst the partners within tontine partnerships. This method defers taxation until a final surviving partner is identified, thereby allocating the entire tax liability to the partner who actually receives the partnership’s property. Adopting this method would provide clarity regarding the taxation of tontine partnerships, allowing these entities an opportunity to return to their once wide-spread use.

Keywords: Tax, Partnership, Tontine, Taxation, Capital Account, Capital Shift, Deferral

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Nelson, John, Taxation of Capital Shifts within Tontine Partnerships: Immediate Taxation, Deferral, or Exclusion? (May 14, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4448038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4448038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
740
RANK
401,129
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies