Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unbridled Losses: Harnessing Machine Learning for Tax Analysis

179(4) Tax Notes Federal 637

7 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Kim Condon

Blue J Legal

Nasreen Rahman

Blue J Legal

Date Written: April 24, 2023

Abstract

The Third Circuit’s recent decision in Skolnick once again demonstrates the predictive power of artificial intelligence in forecasting the outcome of tax appeals. Previous commentary analyzed the opinion of the Tax Court in that case, which held that the taxpayers’ horse breeding and racing activities were not engaged in for profit. In the earlier analysis, relying on machine learning, we predicted with 81 percent confidence that the Tax Court’s ruling would be sustained on appeal. Our prediction proved accurate when the Third Circuit sustained the judgment of the Tax Court on March 8, 2023.

In this article we revisit Skolnick, section 183, and the regulations that set out the rules for deductibility of business losses and the test for an “activity not engaged in for profit.” We also review the facts that gave rise to the dispute in Skolnick and recap the Tax Court’s reasons for siding with the IRS. We outline which factors the algorithm indicated would be decisive for the Third Circuit, review Blue J’s original prediction, and assess the extent to which the factors identified using machine-learning techniques were the same as those decisive on appeal.

Keywords: machine learning, income tax, hobby losses

JEL Classification: H0

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Condon, Kim and Rahman, Nasreen, Unbridled Losses: Harnessing Machine Learning for Tax Analysis (April 24, 2023). 179(4) Tax Notes Federal 637, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4450544
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
739
RANK
663,174
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies