Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Current Discretionary Accruals and early detection of frauds

55 Pages Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 12 Jul 2023

Samarpan Nawn

Indian Institute of Management Udaipur; CFA Institute

prateek sharma

Indian Institute of Management (IIMU), Udaipur

Date Written: July 11, 2023

Abstract

We propose a novel discretionary accruals (DA) measure in the unexplored dimension of non-current accruals. We show that our measure (DA-NC) can improve the forecasting performance of fraud prediction models that rely on conventional current accruals-based DA measures. Analysing accounting frauds in a sample of Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Releases (AAERs), we find that DA-NC provides a good advanced indicator of fraud. However, among the existing DA measures, only accrual estimation error (Dechow and Dichev, 2002) provides an early indication of frauds. While the accrual estimation error measure predicts frauds based on current account misstatements, only DA-NC predicts frauds based on non-current account misstatements. Our results explain the limited success in predicting accounting frauds using existing current accruals-based DA measures. We recommend that a comprehensive predictive model of accounting frauds should incorporate both current and non-current accruals-based DA measures.

Keywords: accounting fraud, earnings management, discretionary accruals

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Nawn, Samarpan and sharma, prateek, Non-Current Discretionary Accruals and early detection of frauds (July 11, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4458387 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4458387
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
B C Ayers , J Jiang , P E Yeung , R Ball , P Brown
Discretionary accruals and earnings management: An analysis of pseudo earnings targets
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms using a machine learning approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
R J Barro
The stock market and investment
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 115 - 131 Posted: 1990
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S Tsui
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
614
RANK
682,707
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies