Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring in Private Equity

The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38738-9_116-1

Posted: 25 May 2023 Last revised: 10 Aug 2023

Peter D. Easton

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Stephannie Larocque

University of Notre Dame - Mendoza College of Business

Paul Mason

Baylor University

Steven Utke

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 24, 2023

Abstract

This article reviews the academic literature on monitoring in private equity. Monitoring in private equity funds encompasses oversight or governance over the fund’s general partner (GP, who manages the fund) for the benefit of the fund’s limited partners (LPs, who invest in the fund). The potential need for monitoring arises from the principal-agent relation between the GP and LPs. In contrast, most prior literature on governance in the private equity setting focuses on the GP’s governance over its investments, known as portfolio companies. The article first describes the private equity fund setting, highlighting that potential monitors likely have relatively less influence over private equity funds than over public firms. Building on the description of the unique private equity fund setting, the article discusses typical monitors of public firms that are unlikely to monitor private equity funds. The article then discusses the existing evidence on private equity fund-level monitoring by LPs, auditors, and other third parties, noting that additional evidence is needed and many open questions remain regarding monitoring in private equity funds.

Keywords: Private equity, Governance, Monitoring, Institutional investors, Auditors, Net asset values, Valuation specialists, Agency costs

JEL Classification: G24, G30, G34, M40

Suggested Citation:

Easton, Peter D. and Larocque, Stephannie A. and Mason, Paul and Utke, Steven, Monitoring in Private Equity (May 24, 2023). The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Private Equity, 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38738-9_116-1, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4458580 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4458580
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,049
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies