Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Practical Demonstrations of the Use of Select Property Investment Viability Appraisal Models: Net Present Value, Profitability Index and Net Terminal Value

Urban Economics & Regional Studies eJournal, Vol 16, Issue 82

19 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023 Last revised: 10 Jul 2023

James Olayinka Ogunbiyi

Department of Estate Management, University of Ibadan

Date Written: May 25, 2023

Abstract

Changing business landscapes and the resultant economic repercussions have led to sophisticated demands on professional service delivery. Increasingly, the reliability of traditional appraisal models has been questioned, leading to growth-explicit models. This paper had the objective of examining three models of the discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis, including Net Present Value, Profitability Index and Net Terminal Value. Practical demonstrations of the application of the models were undertaken in this paper using MSExcel. The paper adopted the case study approach in demonstrating the viability or otherwise of two property investments - a serviced residential apartment building and 55 Units of a commercial development project in Lagos, Nigeria. The study is with the intention of promoting and encouraging better viability appraisal practice among Estate Surveyors and Valuers in Nigeria. More advanced but rational and reliable appraisal techniques would aid better, informed property investment decision-making and preserve the relevance of the appraisal profession in Nigeria.

Keywords: Viability, Appraisal, Investment, Property, Nigeria

JEL Classification: R32

Suggested Citation:

Ogunbiyi, James Olayinka, Practical Demonstrations of the Use of Select Property Investment Viability Appraisal Models: Net Present Value, Profitability Index and Net Terminal Value (May 25, 2023). Urban Economics & Regional Studies eJournal, Vol 16, Issue 82, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4459379 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4459379
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Net Terminal Value = , volume 40
S Anand , S Seema
Feasibility Analysis, Project Report and Business Plan Posted: 2010-06
I K Bello , S E Olajide
A Handbook of Estate Management Posted: 2003
J U Ogbuefi
Aspects of Feasibility and Viability Studies Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
146
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
459,276
1 Citations
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Real Estate eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies