Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pillar 2 and the Bits

6 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2023

Reuven S. Avi-Yonah

University of Michigan Law School

Date Written: May 28, 2023

Abstract

In a recent article in the Canadian Tax Journal, it has been argued that a country that applies pillar 2 of BEPS 2.0 to a subsidiary or permanent establishment of a multinational within it could trigger an investment arbitration under a bilateral investment treaty with the home country of the multinational if the application of pillar 2 raises taxes on the investment. While that may be theoretically true, it ignores the effect of not raising the tax on the investment, which is to trigger the application of tax by another country not party to the BIT. From the investor`s perspective, since it will be paying the tax in both cases, it is not clear that it is worth suing the host country, especially since a successful suit that results in a payment could be treated as a further tax reduction that triggers additional tax elsewhere.

Keywords: Pillar 2, UTPR, BITs

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Pillar 2 and the Bits (May 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4461285 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4461285
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
439
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,377
RANK
151,526
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Michigan Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies