Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Anything Asset: The Tax Classification of Cryptocurrency, NFTs, DAOs and Other Digital Assets

Chapman Law Review, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2023

19 Pages Posted: 5 Jun 2023

Billy Abbott

O'Melveny & Myers LLP - Silicon Valley Office

Date Written: May 1, 2023

Abstract

The first question for any tax practitioner looking at a digital asset will be this: What is it? Given the flexibility of digital assets as evidenced by their already varied use, in a sense, a digital asset can be almost anything. Although tax advisors are used to applying old rules to classify new assets, the versatility of digital assets will stretch that approach and change the practice of tax law. This Article explores the interesting and challenging issue of classifying digital assets: first, through specifically considering the tax classification of common categories of digital assets--cryptocurrency, DAOs and NFTS--and second, by asking whether any or all of those assets can be classified as "securities" or "commodities" under a few key provisions of the Code.

Keywords: cryptocurrency, tax, bitcoin, digital assets, DAO, NFT

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Abbott, Billy, The Anything Asset: The Tax Classification of Cryptocurrency, NFTs, DAOs and Other Digital Assets (May 1, 2023). Chapman Law Review, Vol. 26, No. 2, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4467495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
671
RANK
315,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies