Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rise of Generative AI for Tax Research

Tax Notes Federal, May 29, 2023, p. 1509

15 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2023

Benjamin Alarie

University of Toronto - Faculty of Law; Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence

Kim Condon

Blue J Legal

Susan Massey

Blue J Legal

Christopher Yan

Blue J Legal

Date Written: May 29, 2023

Abstract

ChatGPT has exploded into the popular consciousness. Generative artificial intelligence, in the form of natural language chatbots, is newly poised to significantly shift how tax professionals conduct research. These emerging advanced AI systems can analyze vast amounts of text and generate coherent, contextually relevant responses.

As various industries continue to adopt AI-powered tools, lawyers need to understand and adapt to these new technologies. As Jason Chen has written in Tax Notes, “It is only by incorporating these types of technological advances into daily business practices that modern tax professionals can gain valuable advantages over others in the increasingly competitive world of taxation.”

In this article, we will consider the benefits of using generative AI, examine the concerns, and discuss ways that it can be improved. To illustrate these considerations, we submitted a series of tax law questions to three different generative AI models: ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5), ChatGPT
Plus (based on GPT-4), and Ask Blue J. The questions were selected to represent a variety of tax law areas and to present the types of research questions that a typical tax law practitioner might encounter in their day-to-day practice.

For this experiment we posed identical questions to ChatGPT and Ask Blue J and recorded their responses. We tested the questions against the GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 versions of ChatGPT. We primed each conversation with ChatGPT using the following instruction: “I want you to answer all
questions as they apply in the context of U.S. federal income tax law. Please provide IRS resources along with your answers.” This additional instruction was provided to ChatGPT only because Ask Blue J is already fine-tuned to focus on tax and to provide sources with its responses. Providing the priming instruction to the GPT models ensures a fair comparison. Other than this introductory prompt, our questions to each chatbot were the same. The results highlight the importance of developers and users engaging with this technology thoughtfully when harnessing it for tax research purposes.

Keywords: ChatGPT, generative AI, artificial intelligence, tax research

JEL Classification: H0

Suggested Citation:

Alarie, Benjamin and Condon, Kim and Massey, Susan and Yan, Christopher, The Rise of Generative AI for Tax Research (May 29, 2023). Tax Notes Federal, May 29, 2023, p. 1509, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4476510
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,024
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,486
RANK
50,672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies