Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strings Are Attached: Shining a Spotlight on the Hidden Subsidy for Perpetual Donor Limits on Gifts

56 Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review 1169

64 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2023 Last revised: 22 Dec 2023

Roger Colinvaux

Catholic University of America (CUA) - Columbus School of Law

Date Written: December 18, 2023

Abstract

Charitable gifts often come with strings attached. Donors limit their gifts in many ways, typically by restricting an asset’s use or purpose, the timing of spending (as in an endowment), and by securing naming rights. Donors also limit their gifts by giving to a charitable intermediary such as a donor-advised fund or private foundation, thereby retaining effective control over the distribution or investment of the donated asset. Donor limits are perpetual in nature. The Article assesses the law of donor limits. The Article first explains that non-tax legal rules strongly favor donor limits. They are easy for donors to impose and extremely hard for charities to eliminate. Federal tax rules also favor donor limits by treating most donor-limited gifts the same as unrestricted gifts for purposes of the income and estate tax charitable deductions. As a result, donor limits are common, and burden a substantial portion of charitable assets. The Article finds based on a review of Form 990 data that, for 96 of the leading charities in the U.S., 69% of their $474 billion in net assets are subject to donor limits, meaning these charities have full control of only 31% of assets. For the 17 private universities in this group, 68% of the total endowment is donor limited. The Article discusses that this is a tax law subsidy for dead hand control, one that entails many harms, including to the public interest, charitable autonomy, pluralism, the operational funding of charities, and by imposing compliance costs and subsidizing gains to donors. The Article considers tax reform options for donor-limited gifts. These include treating donor limits as retained rights or return benefits, estate tax reform to discourage giving to intermediaries, curtailing donor-limited gifts from donor-advised funds, and taking donor limits into account for purposes of any new giving incentive, such as a nonitemizer deduction or charitable giving credit. Importantly, under any tax reform approach, the power of donors to impose limits would not change. Donors could continue to limit their gifts in perpetuity as they currently do. But charity, and society, would be relieved from some of the costs of the dead hand.

Keywords: Charitable deduction, perpetuity, estate tax, donor advised funds, dafs, private foundations, restricted giving, donor limits, donor control, endowment, naming rights

JEL Classification: H2, H20, H24, H29, K11, K34, L3, L30, L38

Suggested Citation:

Colinvaux, Roger, Strings Are Attached: Shining a Spotlight on the Hidden Subsidy for Perpetual Donor Limits on Gifts (December 18, 2023). 56 Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review 1169, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4483108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
147 References
Of the $484.85 billion of total charitable giving in 2021, $326.87 billion was individual inter-vivos giving (not all of which was tax deductible), $90.88 billion was giving by foundations, and $46.01 billion was giving by bequest
Giving Usa
THE ANNUAL REPORT ON PHILANTHROPY FOR THE YEAR 2021 , volume 21 Posted: 2022
I R
I R C
Posted: 2055
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,655
RANK
210,914
147 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies