Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agile Methodology to Enhance the Budgeting Procedure

Poonam Shodh Rachana, Vol.1, Issue.VI, August 2022, http://doi.org/10.56642/psr.v01i06.001

7 Pages Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Vivek Aggarwal

Galgotias University - School of Business; SVSU; Gurukul Kangri University

Date Written: August 2022

Abstract

Today's fast-paced economy has put a premium on the need for companies to be flexible enough to respond to the unprecedented challenges they face. To meet the difficulties posed by these shifts, many organisations have adopted the agile framework across a range of operational business sectors. While the agile framework found its first use in project management, it has now been effectively adopted by executives across a wide range of corporate departments.

When it comes to making changes, managers have been unwilling to abandon the old budgeting method. Unfortunately, this is frequently the case since conventional methods of budgeting lack the adaptability and efficiency required to deal with the volatility of today's economic climate. The agile budgeting method breaks down large projects into manageable chunks of work that go through several iterations. The method encourages better preparation, ongoing development, and adaptability. Adapting to altering priorities and opportunities is easier when using an agile budgeting approach because of the ability to make incremental adjustments. The budgeting process is enhanced as a result of a greater emphasis on teamwork and open dialogue.

This piece covers the core ideas of the agile framework and explains the flaws in conventional budgeting methods. It elaborates on the topic by explaining how the agile framework may be used into planning financial resources. The paper concludes by analysing the strengths, weaknesses, and potential pitfalls of an agile budget.

Keywords: Agile, Budgeting, Foreseeing, Waterfall, Project Management

JEL Classification: M00, M40

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Vivek, Agile Methodology to Enhance the Budgeting Procedure (August 2022). Poonam Shodh Rachana, Vol.1, Issue.VI, August 2022, http://doi.org/10.56642/psr.v01i06.001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4487506
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Services for Continuing Professional Development. For the original 2001 version of the Agile Manifesto
N K Sharma
How to Write an Article/Research Paper of Social Science for Publication in an Indexed Journal. How to Write an Article/Research Paper of Social Science for Publication in an Posted: 2022-05-15
Auditing Agile , Simplified , K Amanprit
, p. 52 - 58
N K Sharma
Easy Way to Determine the Sample Size. Easy Way to Determine the Sample Size Posted: 2021-12-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
RANK
552,835
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies