Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Corporate Financial Statements as a Tool of Financial Management in Modern Conditions

8 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2023

Sergey Krylov

Ural Federal University - Graduate School of Economics and Management

Date Written: June 24, 2023

Abstract

The article deals with the author's approach to the analysis of corporate financial statements as a tool of financial management in modern conditions, which is based on the concept of compromise between risk and profitability, is characterized by universality and relative simplicity, involving the use of well-known financial ratios. It is shown that the analysis of corporate financial statements should include the calculation and analysis of financial ratios of risk and profitability according to its actual performance, evaluation of their relationship, adjusting the values of financial risk and profitability (if necessary), forecasting indicators of corporate financial statements, determining their absolute deviations from actual values and developing decisions on financial management of the enterprise based on these deviations. A special emphasis in the article is placed on the focus of the author's approach to the analysis of corporate financial statements as a tool of financial management to ensure an acceptable ratio of risk and profitability associated with the activities of the enterprise.

Keywords: corporate financial reporting, analysis, modern vision, instrument, financial management

JEL Classification: G32, G39, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Krylov, Sergey, Analysis of Corporate Financial Statements as a Tool of Financial Management in Modern Conditions (June 24, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4490630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4490630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Analiz finansovoi otchetnosti Posted: 2008
Vuzovsky Мoscow , Uchebnik
Analiz finansovoi otchetnosti Posted: 2016
Knorus Moscow
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
449,075
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies