Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Projects Boosted to Get Approved? Evidence From Ex-ante Investment Appraisal

73 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023 Last revised: 7 Aug 2023

César Ferreiro

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rodrigo Andres Wagner

UAI Business School ; Growth Lab - Harvard University (Center for Int. Development)

Date Written: October 20, 2022

Abstract

In theory, resources should be allocated to the best projects. But empirical challenges have forced researchers to focus their flashlights on measuring cost-of-capital, hurdle rates, or implications of projects. Thus, they usually leave the ex-ante process of project preparation and appraisal as a black box. This paper explores a unique database of more than 28,000 investment projects between 1997 and 2021, which were prepared and evaluated in multiple rounds, also quantifying their Internal Rate of Return (IRR). First, we find that the project's IRR distribution tends to have bunching just above the cutoff rate for investment. This excess mass of projects of barely positive Net Present Value was not an inherent property of the projects, because this bunching moves as the pre-announced hurdle rate changes. Second, these projects closer to the hurdle rate tend to have longer iteration processes before receiving a passing IRR. Under some circumstances, they also exhibit higher overrun costs and lower completion delays on the execution. Third, project preparation units that have more technical capacity tend to need fewer iterations to reach a passing IRR. Overall, our evidence is coherent strategic models of project preparation, either through "IRR management" (akin to earnings management), or to models of dynamic "revise and resubmit" until getting a passing IRR. We discuss implications for the design of project preparation processes.

Keywords: project appraisal, project evaluation

JEL Classification: G31

Suggested Citation:

Ferreiro, César and Wagner, Rodrigo Andres, Are Projects Boosted to Get Approved? Evidence From Ex-ante Investment Appraisal (October 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4494735 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4494735
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
P Aghion , P Bolton
An incomplete contracts approach to financial contracting
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 473 - 494 Posted: 1992
M Almunia , D Lopez-Rodriguez
Under the Radar: The Effects of Monitoring Firms on Tax Compliance
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 38 Posted: 2018
H An , Y Lee , T Zhang
Do corporations manage earnings to meet/exceed analyst forecasts? evidence from pension plan assumption changes
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 19 , p. 698 - 735 Posted: 2013
T Bakke , H Mahmudi , A Virani
Do clawbacks have claws? the value implications of mandatory clawback provisions Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
716
RANK
528,080
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies