Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Issues of Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017 in Sri Lanka: Perceptions of Professionals

20 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023

Dulani Rasanthika

University of Sri Jayewardenepura - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 28, 2023

Abstract

Purpose: In Sri Lanka, tax revenue is the main income generation source of the government that is governed according to the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017. Only limited literatures have been explored issues in Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017 in a general point of view whilst not in the professional perspective. The purpose of this research is to identify the most highlighted issues and the least highlighted issues exist in the current enacted Act on the perspective of the professionals based on their knowledge and the experiences and ascertain the disparity of the perceptions of such issues between and among the various demographic groups.
Design/Methodology/Approach: Quantitative research approach was used for this study and primary data were collected through distributing questionnaire among the professionals and undergraduates who are following Advanced Taxation and Tax Planning Course at University of Sri Jayewardenepura and obtained responds from 88 participants. By using SPSS first, performed descriptive analysis to identify the most highlighted and the least highlighted issues in Inland Revenue Act. After that performed independent sample t test and One-way ANOVA test to identify whether there are different perceptions of issues concerning respondents’ demographic factors: nature of industry employed/engaged, experience in current capacity, status in the current organization.
Findings: The analysis reveals that all identified issues are subjected to the significant differences based on the nature of the firm employed in, job level and the experience in current capacity of the professionals. Further frequent changes to the Inland Revenue Act is the most critical issue and ineffective, time consuming and bias appeal process involved is the least critical issue. Finally, complicated tax return forms, discretionary power vested in Inland Revenue Department (IRD) without sufficient check and balances and complexity of the tax computation are ranked as second, third and fourth in the list of issues respectively.
Research limitations/implications: This research was limited as that was conducted with a sample of purposefully selected professionals and undergraduates. As a result, this paper merely based on cross sectional research design, it actuates to out date findings based on subsequent amendments enacted by the government to the Act.
Originality/value: This study mainly focus the most significant and least significant issues of Inland Revenue Act of Sri Lanka according to the professionals’ perspective and identifying disparities among issues in term of significant demographic factors. It is vital to overcome future failures when developing advanced provisions to the Inland Revenue Act.

Keywords: Income Tax Issues, Inland Revenue Act, Demographic factors, Professionals perception

JEL Classification: H

Suggested Citation:

Rasanthika, Dulani, Issues of Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017 in Sri Lanka: Perceptions of Professionals (June 28, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4494139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4494139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
K References Amirthalingam
The Importance of Taxation and the Role of Indirect Taxes in Developing Countries: A Survey of Literature
Sri Lanka Economic Journal , volume 13 , issue 28 , p. 67 - 81 Posted: 2012
M G Ronald
Ethics and Taxation: A Theoretical Framework
The Journal of Religious Ethics , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 146 - 161 Posted: 1984
I A Tsindeliani
Tax Law System
International Journal of Environmental and Science Education , volume 11 , issue 10 , p. 3937 - 3946 Posted: 2016
W D Lakshman
Political Economy of Taxation in Sri Lanka
World Review of Political Economy , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 235 - 252 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,171
RANK
228,448
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies