Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Incorporating Complementary Ratios in the Analysis of Financial Statements

Accounting, Management, and Information technologies (Elsevier), Vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 149-162, 1994

22 Pages Posted: 10 Jul 2023

Duarte Trigueiros

ISTAR-IUL, University Institute of Lisbon

Date Written: July 1, 1994

Abstract

Ratios are commonly used to extract information from accounting reports. However, ratios present only part of the information available in their two components. This article infers the functional form of the information discarded by ratios. It then develops ratio complements that incorporate the discarded information, showing examples of their use and discussing the benefits obtained. Ratio complements can detect size-related anomalies of the firm that standard ratios do not recognise, providing a measure of size efficiency with which other financial features can be compared. Consideration of both the ratio and its complement leads to the development of graphical representations of financial features. As well as being intuitive, these graphical representations are a first step towards the automation of financial diagnostics and may lead to a more technology-oriented analysis of financial statements.

Keywords: Financial Analysis, Financial Ratios, Complementary Ratios, Firm Size, Self-Organizing Maps

JEL Classification: C44, C45, G30, L25, M41

Suggested Citation:

Trigueiros, Duarte, Incorporating Complementary Ratios in the Analysis of Financial Statements (July 1, 1994). Accounting, Management, and Information technologies (Elsevier), Vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 149-162, 1994, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4497322
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
J Board , P Pope , L Skerratt
Databases for Accounting Research
Research Report Posted: 1991
C Dang , Z Li , Yang
Measuring firm size in empirical corporate finance
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 86 , p. 159 - 176 Posted: 1992
M Falta , R Willett
Multiplicative regression models of the relationship between accounting numbers and market value Posted: 2011
G Foster
Financial Statement Analysis Posted: 1986
Load more
2 Citations
Duarte Trigueiros , Carolina Sam
Software to Streamline the Detection of Fraud in Published Financial Reports of Companies
25 Pages · Posted: 13 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 82
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stuart McLeay , Duarte Trigueiros
Proportionate Growth and the Theoretical Foundations of Financial Ratios
Abacus (Wiley), Vol. 38, No. 3, pp. 297-316, 2002 · 22 Pages · Posted: 20 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 72
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
841,621
2 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies