Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges and Strategies for Applying DCF Analysis in Uzbekistan's Frontier Market: A Case Study of JSC Uzmetkombinat

Posted: 5 Jul 2023

Marco I. Bonelli

Ca Foscari University of Venice, Department of Management, Students

Date Written: July 4, 2023

Abstract

This research explores the scientific and theoretical aspects of using discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis to evaluate the capital worth of JSC Uzmetkombinat, Uzbekistan's primary steel manufacturing company. Furthermore, the study identifies the existing challenges in applying the DCF method to assess firm capital and proposes solutions to overcome them. The research employs the DCF analysis approach to evaluate the capital value of companies, utilising free cash flow while considering capital expenditure, depreciation costs, and working capital changes. The capital valuation is determined by discounting financial assets at a specified rate. Uzbekistan faces three challenges in employing the DCF method to determine the capital value of corporations, including the relatively small market capitalization of some publicly traded entities, the highly anticipated return on capital of joint-stock firms, and the inadequate dividend policy.

Keywords: Valuation, Emerging Markets, Uzbekistan, Uzmetkombinat, Cost of Equity, Discounted Cash Flow Analysis, Terminal Value, Risk-Free Rate, Frontier Markets, Discounted Cash Flow (DCF).

JEL Classification: G31, G32, G34, P34, O16, O53, P34, P37

Suggested Citation:

Bonelli, Marco I., Challenges and Strategies for Applying DCF Analysis in Uzbekistan's Frontier Market: A Case Study of JSC Uzmetkombinat (July 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4499749
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
360
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies