Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Software to Streamline the Detection of Fraud in Published Financial Reports of Companies

25 Pages Posted: 13 Jul 2023

Duarte Trigueiros

ISTAR-IUL, University Institute of Lisbon

Carolina Sam

Independent

Date Written: July 8, 2016

Abstract

Considerable effort has been devoted to the development of software to support the detection of fraud in published financial statements of companies. Until the present date, however, the applied use of such research has been extremely limited due to the ``black box'' character of the existing solutions and the cumbersome input task they require. The application described in this paper solves both problems while significantly improving performance. It is based on Web-mining and on the use of three Multilayer Perceptron where a modified learning method leads to the formation of meaningful internal representations. Such representations are then input to a features' map where trajectories towards or away from fraud and other financial attributes are identified. The result is a Web-based, self-explanatory, financial statements' fraud detection solution.

Keywords: Multilayer Perceptron, Knowledge extraction, Financial analysis, Financial ratio, Firm size, Bankruptcy prediction, Financial misstatement detection, Earnings forecast.

JEL Classification: C45, G33, M41

Suggested Citation:

Trigueiros, Duarte and Sam, Carolina, Software to Streamline the Detection of Fraud in Published Financial Reports of Companies (July 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4501531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4501531
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D Trigueiros , C Sam
Streamlining the detection of accounting fraud through web mining and interpretable internal representations
The Fifth International Conference on Advances in Information Mining and Management , p. 23 - 26 Posted: 2015
M Nigrini
Forensic Analytics: Methods and Techniques for Forensic Accounting Posted: 2011
W Albrecht , A C , M Zimbelman
Fraud Examination Posted: 2009
C L P Dechow , G Weill , R Sloan
Predicting material accounting misstatements
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 17 - 82 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
484
RANK
703,106
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies