Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Citizenship and Denizenship in the International Tax Context in an Era of Global Economy

35 Fla. J. Int’l L. 1 (2023)

31 Pages Posted: 20 Jul 2023 Last revised: 13 Oct 2025

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Doron Narotzki

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

This paper addresses a fundamental issue underlying the international tax system in the 21st century: the use of citizenship as a jurisdictional basis for imposing income tax liability. As a general matter, the United States is the only developed country that allegedly taxes its citizens living overseas on their worldwide income, however, even the United States de-facto does not tax the vast majority of its citizens living abroad as it offers a generous exclusion for their foreign source income.

This paper analyzes how modern developments in the global economy affect the case for citizenship-based taxation. We conclude that though citizenship is closely connected to state sovereignty and is based on the concept of nationalism and may seem to contradict the globalization trend that is based on the concept of cosmopolitanism, the increase of cross-border human capital mobility in fact strengthens the relevance of citizenship-based taxation in the international tax setting. We also argue the status of “denizenship” can improve and strengthen the citizenship status by complementing a “residency" requirement in the citizenship criterion that is formal and does not require a territorial allegiance between a state and its citizen.

Keywords: Tax, International Tax, Tax Policy, Immigration, International Law

JEL Classification: K34, K37, K33

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir and Narotzki, Doron, Citizenship and Denizenship in the International Tax Context in an Era of Global Economy (December 1, 2023). 35 Fla. J. Int’l L. 1 (2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4513014
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Lister
See also Brooks, supra note 2; Graziella Bertocchi & Chiara Strozzi, The Evolution of Citizenship: Economic and Institutional Determinants
Nationality: Jus Soli or Jus Sanguinis, 24 AM. J. INT'L L , volume 53 , p. 95 - 106 Posted: 1930
H S Q Henriques , Ernest J Schuster
Jus Soli" or , volume 119 Posted: 1917
Lister
, p. 198 - 209
Id
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
408
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,316
RANK
164,802
1 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies