Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digital Nomadism and the Elephant in the Room: the Permanent Establishment

Tributação da Economia Digital (Coord. Juracy Soares e Pedro Marinho Falcão com o apoio da APIT), Forthcoming

12 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2023

Marisa Ouro

Universidad de Extremadura

Date Written: August 19, 2023

Abstract

The main objective of this article is to answer the question of under which circumstances a digital nomad can constitute a permanent establishment.

We start by analysing Article 5 of the OECD Model Convention, whose Commentaries address the possibility of the home office constituting a permanent establishment. In the Commentaries, we seek to ascertain whether it is possible to argue that a digital nomad as an employee can give rise to a fixed place of business when in the exercise of his activity, he uses an Airbnb space, a coworking space or a smartphone.

We will also examine what conditions tax administrations consider to be met for a digital nomad to constitute a permanent establishment. Although their decisions are all based on the comments to Article 5 of the CMOCDE, the conclusions they arrive at can be different, but, in any case, there is always a focus on the concept of "being at the disposal of the enterprise".

The main takeaway is that the risk of an enterprise being taxed by having a permanent establishment when hiring a digital nomad is real, but it varies according to the country. In order to provide more security and transparency, the dissemination of binding information and guidance by tax administrations will be a solution that will provide security and transparency to the growing of this trend.

Keywords: digital nomadism; permanent establishment; remote work

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Ouro, Marisa, Digital Nomadism and the Elephant in the Room: the Permanent Establishment (August 19, 2023). Tributação da Economia Digital (Coord. Juracy Soares e Pedro Marinho Falcão com o apoio da APIT), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4546026 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4546026
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
402
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,246
RANK
167,682
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies