Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Supply Chain Crises: The Impact of Material Information Disclosure Amid China's Zero–COVID Policy

40 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023

Hsiu-Wei Chang

National Taiwan University - Department of Accounting

Pang–Yu Wang

National Taiwan University

Jian–Wei Yu

National Taichung University of Science and Technology

Date Written: August 15, 2023

Abstract

This paper presents the first attempt to investigate the consequences of capital markets on China's “Zero–COVID policy,” specifically during the 2022 outbreaks in Shenzhen, Dongguan, Shanghai, and Kunshan. As these regions implemented strict lockdown measures, significant market disruptions were observed, particularly for firms with production units located in these cities. Our investigation focused on two primary aspects: the extent of negative market reactions associated with mandatory lockdowns, and the potential role of voluntary disclosure in mitigating these adverse effects. Our empirical findings indicate that firms with facilities in lockdown cities experienced marked negative impacts. However, voluntary disclosure of shutdown–related material information significantly mitigated these effects, underscoring the importance of transparency in times of crisis. In addition, such disclosures reduced investor disagreement, highlighting the role of timely information in guiding market sentiments during times of heightened uncertainty.

Keywords: Stock market reaction, COVID–19, Zero–COVID Policy, Disclosure, Investor disagreement, Material Information

JEL Classification: G10, G14, D82, D83

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Hsiu-Wei and Wang, Pang–Yu and Yu, Jian–Wei, Navigating Supply Chain Crises: The Impact of Material Information Disclosure Amid China's Zero–COVID Policy (August 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4546452
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
402
RANK
649,413
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies