Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiscal Subsidies Aspirers Beware of the No Benefit Requirement in Pillar Two

13 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2023

Laura Den Ridder

PwC Rotterdam

Pieter Ruige

PricewaterhouseCoopers Amsterdam

Maarten Floris de Wilde

Erasmus University Rotterdam

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

Vietnam reportedly considers granting subsidies to large multinationals with direct investments in the country, to compensate them for the higher taxes they may have to face there following the country’s introduction of Pillar Two domestic minimum top-up taxation rules per 2024. The OECD warned Vietnamese government officials that if subsidies to multinationals were found to constitute a direct compensation for the higher levy under Pillar Two, the domestic top-up tax would be disqualified. Multinationals would then still have to pay top-up levy regardless, in other jurisdictions that is, to meet the envisaged global minimum 15% tax level. This article elaborates on the No Benefit Requirement (‘NBR’), an underexposed element of Pillar Two. If a country were to observe that some other country’s Pillar Two top-up tax rules disqualify as such, on the basis that this other country provides benefits to companies in relation to its top-up tax, the first-mentioned country would proceed to top-up taxing those companies on their foreign earnings itself: “I’ll tax if you don’t”. One might expect that such a far-reaching fiscal intervention by one sovereign nation in the economy of any of its sovereign peers would only be possible and legitimized on the basis of a principled clear-cut bright-line test, founded and legitimized in the rule of law and embedded in an institutional framework governed by international public law. That, however, is not the case - at all.

Keywords: Pillar Two, No Benefits Requirement, Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, BEPS

JEL Classification: H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Den Ridder, Laura and Ruige, Pieter and de Wilde, Maarten Floris, Fiscal Subsidies Aspirers Beware of the No Benefit Requirement in Pillar Two (September 7, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4564923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4564923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,261
RANK
158,557
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies