Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Sustainability-Linked Notes have Embedded Derivatives?

19 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2023

A. Rashad Abdel-Khalik

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: September 8, 2023

Abstract

Following the 2010 initiative of the World Bank, business enterprises began in 2019 to issue sustainability-linked bonds. These debt instruments allow issuers to provide lower coupon interest rate contingent on their achieving predefined environmental, social, and governance targets. Failure to achieve the agreed-upon targets leads to increasing the coupon rate according to a step-up plan. The accounting for these sustainability-linked debt instruments hinges on whether these step-up features are embedded derivatives and, if so, are they subject to bifurcation? I develop some of these issues and include three actual cases—Holcim Group, Enbridge, and Ford Motors—and then provide a possible approach to accounting for the special step-up features as bifurcated embedded derivatives.

Keywords: Sustainability, Step-up, Step-down, Environment, Social, Carbon Emission

JEL Classification: M41, G1, G3

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Khalik, A. Rashad, Do Sustainability-Linked Notes have Embedded Derivatives? (September 8, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4565685 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4565685
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
M P Baker , D Bergstresser , G Serafeim , J A Wurgler
Financing the response to climate change: The pricing and ownership of U.S. green bonds Posted: 2018-10-12
T Berrada , L Engelhardt , R Gibson , P Krueger
The economics of sustainability linked bonds
Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No. 22-26. European Corporate Governance Institute-Finance Working Posted: 2022-03-15
E Danieli , R Abercromby , J V De La Pena
Commentary: Sustainability-linked bonds: Financial over ESG benefits Posted: 2023-02-22
Tomorrow Is On: Sustainability Report Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
418,383
2 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies