Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting for the Extended Enterprise: Performance Management for Strategic Alliances and Networked Partners

MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING IN THE DIGITAL ECONOMY, Chapter 3, A. Bhimani, ed., Oxford University Press, 2003

Posted: 7 Nov 2003

Shannon W. Anderson

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Karen Sedatole

Goizueta Business School

Abstract

Firm boundaries no longer define the relevant entity for performance management for many firms. Competitive forces, deregulated economies and technological advances have reduced the costs of transacting with external parties and diminished the value of vertical integration. At the same time, the potential returns to collaboration have increased, as firms with unique capabilities join forces to more rapidly develop and deliver innovative products and services. Collaboration may take the form of arrangements that align the interests of participating parties through formal profit-sharing rules (e.g., franchises, licensing arrangements, and joint ventures). Alternatively, they may take a more amorphous form, using few mechanisms from contract law to structure their interactions or allocate the gains from trade (e.g., strategic alliances, strategic partnerships, consortia, extended enterprises, and strategic supply chains).

Although the research and teaching in some management disciplines reflect the trend toward collaboration as a mode of organizing economic activity, the field of accounting has generally been unresponsive to these changes. We posit that new management accounting practices are fulfilling old demands for performance measurement and management control in new ways to facilitate this capability. At the same time, they are also fulfilling new demands for promoting learning and rich communication in a coordinated network of partner firms. In developing our case, we review theory and evidence from the corporate strategy literature, the organizational literature, and to a lesser degree, the operations management and management accounting literatures. We also conduct a thorough search of the practitioner literature to identify contemporary accounts of partner relationships. Our objective is to suggest a new research agenda for the extended enterprise that is linked to what has traditionally been termed management accounting research, but which challenges these boundaries using literatures that have begun to explore the contours of the new organizational landscape.

Note: This is a description of the paper and not the actual abstract.

Keywords: management accounting, collaboration, strategic alliances, transaction cost economics

JEL Classification: L14, L22, M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Anderson, Shannon W. and Sedatole, Karen, Management Accounting for the Extended Enterprise: Performance Management for Strategic Alliances and Networked Partners. MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTING IN THE DIGITAL ECONOMY, Chapter 3, A. Bhimani, ed., Oxford University Press, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=457600
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,589
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies