Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Staring into the Abyss: Does Accounting Face a Looming Enrollment Crisis?

Journal of Accounting Education, volume 71, 2025[10.1016/j.jaccedu.2025.100967]

1 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2023 Last revised: 12 May 2025

Erik S. Boyle

Idaho State University

Marcus Alexander Burger

University of North Carolina at Pembroke

Rana Mazumder

Florida Atlantic University

Date Written: July 27, 2023

Abstract

Leaders in higher education have predicted that declining birth rates since 2008 will lead to an enrollment cliff in higher education in which enrollment rates, which have steadily increased for decades, will reverse directions. Because many university budget models are predicated on increases to tuition, changes to this model can be catastrophic for universities that fail to plan ahead. We review recent trends in accounting degrees awarded, both individually and in comparison to other business school and university degree awards, to better understand how accounting is positioned relative to other degrees in higher education in the lead-up to this enrollment cliff. We review public data from the National Center for Education Statistics and find that accounting degrees awarded in the United States have steadily decreased since 2015. This decrease has occurred across institution types and demographic characteristics, indicating that there are fundamental issues with accounting that need to be addressed. Although the profession has taken some initial steps to encourage more students into the field of accounting, such as making changes to licensure procedures and requirements and encouraging accounting programs to seek out STEM designation, more measures may be needed for the supply of accountants to keep pace with future expected demand.

Keywords: accounting education, higher education, college enrollment, enrollment cliff, student demographics, STEM

JEL Classification: I20, I21, I23, I26

Suggested Citation:

Boyle, Erik S. and Burger, Marcus Alexander and Mazumder, Rana, Staring into the Abyss: Does Accounting Face a Looming Enrollment Crisis? (July 27, 2023). Journal of Accounting Education, volume 71, 2025[10.1016/j.jaccedu.2025.100967], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4591833 or http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jaccedu.2025.100967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
RANK
379,264
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies