Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Auditor's Perspective on Smart Contracts and DAOs

The CPA Journal, 93(7/8), 60-63 (2023). Publisher: New York State Society of CPAs. Available at https://www.cpajournal.com/2023/10/04/an-auditors-perspective-on-smart-contracts-and-daos/

7 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2023 Last revised: 22 Jan 2024

Hrishikesh Desai

Arkansas State University

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Auditing Standard (AS) 1010, Training and Proficiency of the Independent Auditor, requires that audits be performed by people having adequate technical training and proficiency. However, the bar of “technical training and proficiency” has gone up significantly with the advent of blockchain or distributed ledger technology and especially its use cases pertaining to smart contracts and decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO).

This article focuses not only on the audit of the data stored on the blockchain, but also the audit of the blockchain itself. This is an important distinction because, in the former case, CPA auditors can be less concerned about the quality and quantity of audit evidence obtained due to the immutability and enhanced security of the blockchain. Data stored on the blockchain may even be more accurate and complete compared to the data obtained from traditional databases. Also, in the former case, unfamiliarity with blockchain technology will not necessarily hinder auditing the data stored on the blockchain, as long as the data is extracted properly. Nevertheless, the latter case represents a significant challenge for CPA auditors, and unfamiliarity with blockchain technology in such a case can be the bane of an audit engagement.

Keywords: blockchain, smart contracts, auditing

JEL Classification: M00, M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Hrishikesh, An Auditor's Perspective on Smart Contracts and DAOs (July 1, 2023). The CPA Journal, 93(7/8), 60-63 (2023). Publisher: New York State Society of CPAs. Available at https://www.cpajournal.com/2023/10/04/an-auditors-perspective-on-smart-contracts-and-daos/, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4593616
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
475
ABSTRACT VIEWS
459
RANK
138,019
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies