Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Power of Embedded Derivatives: A Tale from Italy

15 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023

A. Rashad Abdel-Khalik

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

A quick look at many 10-K Form reports will show that the expression “embedded derivative” is pervasive, reflecting its use and relevance in any effort to evaluate the informativeness of annual reports. To take an example, the 10-K Form of Prudential Financial, Inc. for 2021 repeats the term “embedded derivatives” more than 115 times. Yet not many people know what that expression means or how profound its financial impact could be on various business activities in all industries.

Keywords: Derivatives, Financial Reporting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Abdel-Khalik, A. Rashad, The Power of Embedded Derivatives: A Tale from Italy (October 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4596863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4596863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
M P Baker , D Bergstresser , G Serafeim , J A Wurgler
Financing the response to climate change: The pricing and ownership of U.S. green bonds Posted: 2018-10-12
T Berrada , L Engelhardt , R Gibson , P Krueger
The economics of sustainability linked bonds Posted: 2022-03-15
E Danieli , R Abercromby , J V De La Pena
Commentary: Sustainability-linked bonds: Financial over ESG benefits
Morningstar Posted: 2023-02-22
Enel Energy
Enel Launches the World's First
General Purpose SDG Linked Bond" Successfully Placing a 1.5 billion U. S. Dollar Bond on the U. S. Market Posted: 2019-09-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
61
ABSTRACT VIEWS
528
RANK
834,175
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies