Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Tech versus the Accounting Profession: The Race for Leadership

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4608595

26 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2023

Paul A. Griffin

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Estelle Yuan Sun

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Date Written: October 20, 2023

Abstract

Not since Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli invented the double-entry system of bookkeeping some seven centuries ago has the accounting profession faced a significant threat to the theory and practice of accounting. This threat comes in the form of Carbon Tech, a new industry built on society’s needs to manage and reduce carbon emissions. One main focus of Carbon Tech is accounting for the impacts of climate change, in particular, by providing services to manage and reduce carbon emissions. Accounting for the impacts of climate change, however, will require deep knowledge and expertise arguably well beyond today’s qualifications of a practicing CPA. Moreover, regulations and business self-interest will mean that almost every company on the planet purchase these services. In this paper, we describe the characteristics and growth of this emerging industry and why it might matter for the accounting profession. As an empirical basis for our insights, we examine the skill sets sought by Carbon Tech compared to accounting firms by tracking their recent patterns of job postings. This analysis highlights how the accounting profession might fare in a contest for leadership in the emerging Carbon Tech industry.

Keywords: Carbon Tech, emissions measurement, carbon accounting, carbon management

JEL Classification: M4, K2, O3, Q55

Suggested Citation:

Griffin, Paul A. and Sun, Estelle Yuan, Carbon Tech versus the Accounting Profession: The Race for Leadership (October 20, 2023). Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper No. 4608595, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4608595 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4608595
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
968
RANK
270,901
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies