Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
What Accountants Need to Know About the Law

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming

82 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023 Last revised: 5 Sep 2025

Lawrence J. Trautman

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business; Texas A&M University School of Law (By Courtesy)

Michael Conklin

Texas A&M University School of Law

Larry D. Foster, II

University of Houston - Downtown - College of Business; Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Neal F. Newman

Texas A&M University School of Law

Aaron Pennington

University of Cincinnati - Department of Accounting

John F. Robertson

Arkansas State University

Keri White

University of Central Florida

Eric D. Yordy

The W. A. Franke College of Business at Northern Arizona University

Date Written: November 6, 2023

Abstract

Probably nothing is more important to a student of accounting than successful passage of the CPA exam. Because CPA’s are assuming “new responsibilities that were traditionally assigned to more experienced staff… The CPA Evolution Initiative aims to transform the CPA licensure model to recognize the rapidly changing skills and competencies the practice of accounting requires today and will require in the future.” A combined effort by the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA) and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), “There is a hard cutoff from the current CPA exam sections to the 2024 CPA exam sections on the January 2024 launch.” The purpose of this Article is to provide thoughts about what a CPA candidate needs to know about the law.

Keywords: ACA, AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, agency, bankruptcy, business entities, capital formation, contracts, CPA exam blueprint, credit and secured transactions, cybersecurity, employment, Enron, ERISA, ethics, FCPA, information security, PCAOB, qualified health plans, sale of goods, Sarbanes-Oxley

Suggested Citation:

Trautman, Lawrence J. and Conklin, Michael and Foster, II, Larry D. and Newman, Neal F. and Pennington, Aaron and Robertson, John F. and White, Keri and Yordy, Eric D., What Accountants Need to Know About the Law (November 6, 2023). Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4624142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
Committee Audit , Charter
The Coca-Cola Company (last updated Feb , volume 16 Posted: 2023
See Lawrence , J Trautman , ; , Comm L J , Lawrence E Mitchell
Who Qualifies as an Audit Committee Financial Expert Under SEC Regulations and NYSE Rules?, 11 DEPAUL BUS , volume 205 Posted: 2003
See Trautman , Id
, volume 218
II(A)(3) Posted: 2003-01-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,162
RANK
193,945
1 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Texas A&M University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies