Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Targeted Partnership Allocations Part I

The Tax Adviser

6 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2023

Noel Brock

Eastern Michigan Univeristy

Date Written: June 1, 2013

Abstract

Partnership allocations are the division of the partnership’s items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit between and among the partners. For allocations to be respected, they must have substantial economic effect. Safe-harbor partnership allocations are allocations that meet one of three requirements under Regs. Sec. 1.704-1(b) to be respected as having substantial economic effect. Targeted allocations, which generally do not meet any of the safe-harbor requirements, allocate partnership items so that the partners’ ending capital accounts equal the amount the partners should receive under the partnership agreement’s specific order of distribution in liquidation, commonly called the distribution waterfall. They will be respected if they are in accordance with the partners’ interests in the partnership. Reasons that targeted allocations are used include that in general they are more easily understood by partners and are much easier to properly draft than safe harbor allocations.

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Noel, Targeted Partnership Allocations Part I (June 1, 2013). The Tax Adviser, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4624108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
206
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
RANK
337,844
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Real Estate eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies