Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxation of Conditional Contracts

27 Missim [Taxes] 1 (2013)

20 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2023 Last revised: 30 Nov 2023

Tamir Shanan

College of Management

Date Written: November 8, 2023

Abstract

Transactions for the sale of assets include various contractual provisions that impose various charges on the parties to the contract, that spread over an extensive period. These conditions may create uncertainty regarding the parties' obligations to act according to the contractual provisions. The paper focuses on the tax consequences that apply to conditional contracts which the parties cannot control and proposes a regulatory framework that would not defer the taxable event until the condition is met on one hand but does not expose the taxpayer to excessive tax burden when the condition is not met.

Keywords: Tax, Contract Law, Personal Income Tax, Corporate Income Tax

JEL Classification: K10, K12, K22, K34, K42

Suggested Citation:

Shanan, Tamir, Taxation of Conditional Contracts (November 8, 2023). 27 Missim [Taxes] 1 (2013), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4627302
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
RANK
724,701
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies