Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
C-705/20 Allowing Foreign Tax Credit Against Recovery from an Aid Recipient Does Not Infringe the Commission Decision

European Competition and Regulatory Law Review, 7(4) (2023): 265 - 268

Posted: 10 Jan 2024

Shafi U Khan Niazi

Monash Business School

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

The preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice in Case C-705/20 addressed the question of whether and how to adjust foreign tax payments of an aid recipient company against the amount of recoverable aid following Commission Decision 2019/700 of 19 December 2018. The Court of Justice ruled that the Commission decision does not prohibit the national authorities from applying domestic tax law to offset tax paid by the aid recipient abroad against taxes for which it is liable in Gibraltar.

Keywords: European Union, State aid, Fiscal aid, Aid recovery, Tax offset, Foreign tax credit

Suggested Citation:

Khan Niazi, Shafi Ullah, C-705/20 Allowing Foreign Tax Credit Against Recovery from an Aid Recipient Does Not Infringe the Commission Decision (December 15, 2023). European Competition and Regulatory Law Review, 7(4) (2023): 265 - 268, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4667364
 Not Available for Download
1 References
CoRe -European Competition and Regulatory Law Review: C-705/20 Allowing Foreign Tax Credit against Recovery from an…
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies