Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charity Law & Blockchain Technology: Using Old Wineskins for New Wine?

77 The Tax Lawyer 575 (2024)

49 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023 Last revised: 3 Apr 2024

Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer

Notre Dame Law School

Date Written: September 27, 2024

Abstract

Whenever something new emerges, the question of how existing law applies arises. Sometimes it is both easy to answer that question and the answer is consistent with the policy goals of existing law. But sometimes the answer to that question is uncertain, does not fit well with those policy goals, or reflects a mixture of these two issues.

This question is particularly vexing today with respect to new assets facilitated by blockchain technology. These new assets include cryptocurrencies, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and ownership interests in decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs). Commentators have written about how certain laws, particularly securities law, apply to these new assets. However, there is one legal area that commentators have yet to fully address: charity law, especially the federal tax laws relating to charities. Charities and donors are increasingly involved in transactions involving these new assets, with little guidance about how this law applies to those transactions.

This Article considers how existing charity law applies to these new assets and, to the extent that application is either uncertain or inconsistent with the policy goals underlying charity law, how charity law should be modified to accommodate these new assets. It concludes that existing law provides sufficiently certain answers regarding its application to these new assets and that application is consistent with the goals underlying that law. But two areas may require further guidance or modification of existing law in the foreseeable future: first, should certain cryptocurrencies be treated as readily valued for charitable contribution tax deduction purposes if sufficiently reliable cryptocurrency exchanges emerge; and second, if charities increasingly use blockchain technology, and particularly DAO governance structures, to further their exempt purposes, when is that use consistent with exemption under federal tax law.

Keywords: charities, charitable contribution deduction, tax exemption, income tax, blockchain, cryptocurrency, non-fungible tokens, decentralized autonomous organizations

JEL Classification: C88, K34, L30

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Lloyd Hitoshi, Charity Law & Blockchain Technology: Using Old Wineskins for New Wine? (September 27, 2024). 77 The Tax Lawyer 575 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4669594 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4669594
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
See Linda , M Beale
Compare supra note 46 and accompanying text (cryptocurrency market cap of over $1.1 trillion) with supra note 65 and accompanying text
noting the potential for valuation issues for digital assets, especially with respect to NFTs) , volume 15 Posted: 2023
See Rev , Rul
73-104, 1973-1 C.B. 263 (sale of greeting card reproductions of museum's art works is not an unrelated trade or business)
Antidotedao
, volume 84
Apostolicdao
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
844
RANK
403,275
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cyberspace Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies