Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Reduction and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria

Aggreh, M., Abiahu, M. F. C. & Nworie, G. O. (2023). Cost Reduction and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria. CIBN Journal of Banking ISSN: 2736-1772, 11(1), 1-38.

42 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2024

Aggreh Meshack

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Gilbert Ogechukwu Nworie

Ebonyi State University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: June 30, 2023

Abstract

This study sought to determine the effect of cost reduction on the financial performance of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria. Specifically, the study ascertained the extent to which cost of assets, cost of sales and staff costs affect the return on equity of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria. The study used ex-post facto research design. Purposive sampling was used to obtain the twelve firms that made up the sample size of the study, from a population size of twenty. Secondary data were obtained from the review of audited financial statements of the listed consumer goods firms over the 10-year period from 2011 to 2020 (both years inclusive). Pooled Ordinary Least Square regression was used in estimating the test results at 5% level of significance. The major findings of the study are that: costs of assets do not significantly affect the return on equity of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria (t-ratio = – 0.05, Prob>t = 0.960); costs of sales do not significantly affect the return on equity of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria (t-ratio = –1.03, Prob>t = 0.305); staff costs significantly affect the return on equity of quoted consumer goods firms in Nigeria (t-ratio = 2.99, Prob>t = 0.003). The study recommends that shareholders of listed consumer goods firms should encourage programmes that enhance training, development and welfare of the staff since such investments make significant contributions to the firm’s performance.

Keywords: Cost Reduction, Financial Performance, Cost of Assets, Cost of Sales, Staff Costs, Return on Equity

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Meshack, Aggreh and Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Nworie, Gilbert Ogechukwu, Cost Reduction and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria (June 30, 2023). Aggreh, M., Abiahu, M. F. C. & Nworie, G. O. (2023). Cost Reduction and Financial Performance of Listed Consumer Goods Firms in Nigeria. CIBN Journal of Banking ISSN: 2736-1772, 11(1), 1-38., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682493
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
A Abdul , T A Isiaka
Relationship between cost management and profitability: A study of selected manufacturing firms
International Journal of Management Sciences and Humanities , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 45 Posted: 2015
F F Adegbie , T V Fadere
Cost Management and Financial Performance of Consumer Goods Companies Quoted in Nigeria
International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications , volume 10 , issue 8 , p. 82 - 90 Posted: 2020
E O Adeleke
Cost management techniques and performance of Nigerian Banks Posted: 2014
E Adigbole , O Osemene
Strategic Cost Management and Accuracy of Cost Information in Selected Manufacturing Firms in Lagos and Ogun States
Nigeria. International Journal of Accounting & Finance (IJAF) , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
691
RANK
568,179
1 Citations
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies