Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Regulations and the New Cost-Benefit Analysis

181 Tax Notes Federal 1977 (Dec. 11, 2023)

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 24-21

NYU School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 24-21

7 Pages Posted: 1 Feb 2024

Daniel J. Hemel

New York University School of Law

Date Written: December 11, 2023

Abstract

The White House Office of Management and Budget released a much-anticipated revision of its guidance to federal agencies regarding regulatory cost-benefit analysis — a document known as Circular A-4 — on November 9, 2023. The new Circular A-4, which supersedes the 2003 version, encourages agencies to analyze the distributional effects of proposed regulatory actions as part of their cost-benefit analysis and provides detailed instructions for how to do so. If agencies heed the new Circular A-4’s guidance, distributional considerations will become an increasingly important element of regulatory decision-making across the federal executive branch.

Yet there is at least one area of regulation in which the new Circular A-4 won’t have any immediate effect: tax. Under a June 2023 memorandum of agreement between Treasury and the OMB, “tax regulatory actions” — defined to include all regulatory actions in accordance with all federal income, excise, estate, gift, and employment tax laws — are exempt from the analytical requirements of Circular A-4. The anomalous result is that the new framework for distributional analysis of federal regulations doesn’t apply to the regulations that have the largest distributional effects: those promulgated by Treasury and the IRS that shape the federal tax system.

The exemption of tax regulations from Circular A-4’s distributional analysis framework is not only anomalous but also — and worse yet — counterproductive to the Biden administration’s redistributive objectives. Any serious effort to address income and wealth inequality through federal regulatory action must involve tax regulations. The IRS can accomplish some amount of redistribution through audits of high-net-worth individuals and corporations, but a single stroke of the regulatory pen can accomplish vastly more — in sheer dollar terms — than thousands of grueling, yearslong field exams. If the Biden administration is genuinely committed to its
stated goal of achieving a more equitable distribution of regulatory benefits and burdens, it should reconsider its decision to exempt Treasury and the IRS from Circular A-4’s regulatory analysis requirements.

Keywords: tax regulations, cost-benefit analysis, distributional analysis, Circular A-4

JEL Classification: D3, D30, D31, D61, D63, K2, K20, K23, K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemel, Daniel J., Tax Regulations and the New Cost-Benefit Analysis (December 11, 2023). 181 Tax Notes Federal 1977 (Dec. 11, 2023), NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 24-21, NYU School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 24-21, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4687357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
809
RANK
524,740
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

NYU School of Law, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies