Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Like-Kind Exchange Deadlines That Fall on Weekends and Holidays

Tax Notes Federal, Vol.181, p. 261, (Oct. 9, 2023)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 759

11 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: January 16, 2024

Abstract

Section 1031 identification periods and exchange periods have almost a 30-percent chance of ending on a weekend or holiday. In practice, most exchanges close before the last day of the exchange period, and cautious exchangers will identify replacement property before the last day of the identification period.
Nonetheless, from time to time, exchangers find themselves with an unachievable deadline that falls on a weekend or holiday and they are left to wonder if they can qualify for section 1031 nonrecognition if they complete the identification or exchange on the next business day. Like-Kind Exchange Deadlines That Fall on Weekends and Holidays, at the link below, examines section 7503, which extends deadlines that fall on weekends and holidays, reviews the IRS position regarding such deadlines, and presents the case law that has considered the IRS position. The article concludes that courts would likely follow their precedent and apply section 7503 to section 1031 deadlines. The article most definitely does not advocate waiting until the last minute to identify or acquire replacement property. For those exchangers who have no alternative, however, they may look to the section 7503 and case law when deciding whether to identify or acquire replacement property on the first business day following a weekend or holiday deadline and report the transaction as a valid section 1031 exchange.

Keywords: section 1031, tenancy-in-common, drop-and-swap, qualified-use requirement, investment purpose, held for productive use in a trade or business

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Like-Kind Exchange Deadlines That Fall on Weekends and Holidays (January 16, 2024). Tax Notes Federal, Vol.181, p. 261, (Oct. 9, 2023), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 759, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4697117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
467
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies