Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Against Taxing Direct Cash Transfers

111 Tax Notes State 113, Jan. 8, 2024

10 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2024

Jacqueline Lainez Flanagan

George Washington University - Law School

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

Despite the rise of Direct Cash Transfer (DCT) programs during the COVID-19 pandemic and the documented efficacy of cash transfers based on need, existing federal tax guidance addressing DCTs has been sparse, limited to IRS Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs). The FAQs note DCTs are exempt from recognition as income, and thus non-taxable, if they are comprised of qualified State and Local Fiscal Recovery (SLFR) funds and are not compensation for services.

This exemption from gross income is based on the section 139 exclusion for disaster relief payments. Therefore, as pandemic aid, qualified disaster relief funds are inevitably depleted, DCT programs and recipients will lose this limited guidance. This is concerning since DCT programs continue to multiply, particularly through the increased use of a combination of private and public funds. These concerns are compounded by the fact that DCT recipients face increased audit risks because they are more likely to receive high audit risk tax benefits like the earned income tax credit.

This article proposes three avenues to address the lack of tax law guidance related to direct cash payments based on need. The recommendations herein provide program recipients and administrators with clear guidance, especially as DCTs move beyond solely government-issued payments intended to mitigate the economic impact of COVID-19 and extend beyond SLFR disaster relief funds. The recommendations focus on the need for, and importance of, novel tax approaches to novel ways of giving.

Suggested Citation:

Lainez Flanagan, Jacqueline, Against Taxing Direct Cash Transfers (January 8, 2024). 111 Tax Notes State 113, Jan. 8, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4710932
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
370
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies