Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Amicus brief of the center for taxpayer rights, the community tax law project, the UC Hastings low-income taxpayer clinic and the Villanova Federal Tax Clinic in support of the petitioner (no.12982-20)

UC San Francisco Research Paper Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2024

Christine Speidel

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law

Anna Gooch

Center for Taxpayer Rights

Leslie Book

Villanova University - Charles Widger School of Law

Nina E. Olson

Center for Taxpayer Rights

Nancy Rossner

The Community Tax Law Project

Amy Spivey

UC Law, San Francisco

Date Written: July 22, 2022

Abstract

INTEREST OF THE AMICUS
The Center for Taxpayer Rights ("the Center") is a§ 50I(c)(3) 2 not-for-
profit corporation dedicated to furthering taxpayers' awareness of and access to
taxpayer rights, and operates the Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) Support
Center. The Federal Tax Clinic at Villanova University's Charles Widger School
of Law, The Community Tax Law Project, and the U.C. Hastings Low Income
Taxpayer Clinic represent low income taxpayers in controversies before the IRS and
the United States Tax Court, with the goal of maximizing financial well-being and
protecting the rights of low income taxpayers. The Center's Executive Director is
Nina E. Olson, who served from 2001 to 2019 as the National Taxpayer Advocate
under§ 7803(c)(l)(B). In that role, Ms. Olson submitted reports to Congress twice
a year urging administrative and legislative improvements to taxpayer rights,
including clarifying the standard of review in § 6015( t) cases. The Villanova
Clinic's director, Christine Speidel, recently co-authored a revision of the book A
Practitioner's Guide to Innocent Spouse Relief Professor Les Book is the
successor author for the Thomson Reuters treatise IRS Practice and Procedure and
has written extensively about relief under § 6015.

The amici have taken an interest in this case as it involves an issue central to
administering a fair and just tax system. Low income taxpayers, including those
who appear before the IRS and the courts pro se or who are survivors of domestic
violence, have difficulty creating a complete administrative record upon requesting
relief from joint and several liability under § 6015. The skeletal procedures and
guidance established by the IRS for its employees to develop an administrative
record, the summary nature of the basis for the IRS' s decision to deny relief, and
the inability of the requesting spouse to conduct discovery or subpoena witnesses
or documents or learn what the non-requesting spouse has proffered at the
administrative hearing, render it difficult if not impossible for the requesting
spouse to submit for the administrative record all relevant and necessary evidence
in support of their claim for relief. Accordingly, the amici present this brief in
support of the position that exceptions to the administrative record rule of§
6015(e)(7) be applied expansively given the de novo review the court must
conduct, the requesting spouse's specific circumstances, and the nature of the
IRS' s administrative procedures.

Keywords: innocent spouse,abuse of discretion,domestic violence,reasonable diligence standard,Section 6015(e)(7), administrative record

Suggested Citation:

Speidel, Christine and Gooch, Anna and Book, Leslie and Olson, Nina E. and Rossner, Nancy and Spivey, Amy, Amicus brief of the center for taxpayer rights, the community tax law project, the UC Hastings low-income taxpayer clinic and the Villanova Federal Tax Clinic in support of the petitioner (no.12982-20) (July 22, 2022). UC San Francisco Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4714900 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4714900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
Posted: 2016-07-11
Tax Court Rules of Practice and Posted: 2017-06
Other Authorities Treasury Regulations § 30 , volume 14
R Fed , Civ
, volume 13
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
460
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of California Law, San Francisco Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Legal Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies