Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountants Learn Economics the Hard Way: A Commentary on Declining Enrolments

6 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2024 Last revised: 10 Mar 2024

Ray Ball

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Date Written: February 9, 2024

Abstract

This short commentary addresses the recent decline in accounting majors at many universities and the resulting CPA shortage that has emerged. The professional body for American CPAs (AICPA) is preparing a report on the shortage, which appears to be due in large part to the AICPA itself. Under the guise of increasing the quality of accountants, its incumbent members voted to restrict entry by requiring new entrants to spend an extra year in college (known as the 150-hour rule). Research by Barrios (2022) and by Sutherland, Uckert and Vetter (2024) demonstrates that the rule reduced entry to the profession, did not noticeably increase the quality of new recruits, and had a larger effect on minorities. A reasonable conclusion is that because new recruits were not more productive than incumbents, CPA firms were unable to offer them sufficient additional compensation to cover the cost of an extra year of tuition and forgone earnings. Hence the shortage. The rule looks more like a restriction on entry than an upgrade of accounting talent.

Keywords: 150 hours, accounting enrolments, education, entry restrictions, occupational licensing, shortage

JEL Classification: M14, M53, M40

Suggested Citation:

Ball, Ray, Accountants Learn Economics the Hard Way: A Commentary on Declining Enrolments (February 9, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4715570 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4715570
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Ball
By What Criteria Do We Evaluate Accounting? Some Thoughts on Economic Welfare and the Archival Literature
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 62 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 54 Posted: 2024
J M Barrios
Occupational licensing and accountant quality: Evidence from the 150-hour rule
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 43 Posted: 2022
J A Burke , R S Polimeni
The Accounting Profession Is in Crisis: A Partial Solution to the Shortage of Accountants
The CPA Journal , volume 93 , issue 9/10 , p. 6 - 8 Posted: 2023
M Friedman
Capitalism and Freedom Posted: 1962
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
258
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
RANK
270,901
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies