Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Guidance on the CTA

12 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Herrick K. Lidstone

Jennings Haug Keleher McLeod Waterfall LLP

Date Written: February 21, 2024

Abstract

As has been mentioned before by me and others, the January 1, 2024, effectiveness of the federal Corporate Transparency Act (the “CTA”) has the potential of impacting every company doing business in the United States, whether formed in the United States or elsewhere. While not every company will be a Reporting Company, and while many Reporting Companies will be exempt from the reporting requirements, all businesses need to determine whether they are subject to the CTA reporting requirements and how to comply. It remains amazing how few lawyers, accountants, and businesses are actually concerned about this compliance obligation which is backed by potential civil and criminal sanctions as set forth in the CTA.

In the weeks since effectiveness, FinCEN released several frequently asked questions (“FAQs”) on the application of the federal Corporate Transparency Act (“CTA”).[1] Attorneys and others trying to understand the CTA are likely to find several of these FAQs to be particularly relevant to them. This article also includes a discussion of

• Whether a Reporting Company can avoid the reporting obligation by dissolving;
• The reporting obligations of foreign (non-U.S.) entities;
• Series LLCs;
• Certain issues related to Company Applicants;
• A discussion of new FinCEN interpretations issued as FAQs in January 2024;
• FinCEN Identifiers;
• Access to the BOI; and
• The New York Limited Liability Company Transparency Act.

This paper discusses the process for filing Beneficial Ownership Information Reports ("BOIRs"), new interpretations, unanswered questions regarding the definition of Reporting Companies (including the potential exemption from the definition for series LLCs), FinCEN Identifiers, and information about the NYLTA.

Keywords: corporate transparency act, CTA, beneficial ownership information, FinCEN, security, confidentiality, PII, BOI reports, FinCEN IDs, New York LLCTA

JEL Classification: K10, K20, K22, K40, M13,

Suggested Citation:

Lidstone, Herrick K. and Lidstone, Herrick K., New Guidance on the CTA (February 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4717186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4717186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
273
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
RANK
255,505
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies