Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Curious Case of Reverse Morris Trusts

U of Texas Law, Legal Studies Research Paper

24 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2024

Mira Ganor

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Date Written: October 1, 2023

Abstract

This Article analyzes the reverse Morris trust (RMT) transaction and shows that RMTs present a unique case of corporate governance. In an RMT the shareholders are positioned on both sides of the transaction while management is not, thus creating a misalignment of interests, which can be detrimental to the shareholders and potentially lead to inefficient transactions. This Article shows that the common use of a split-off as part of the RMT transaction can benefit informed shareholders at the expense of unsophisticated shareholders. To address these concerns, this Article puts forward a proposed amendment to the tender offer rules – a default contingent tender rule.

Keywords: corporate governance; reverse Morris trust; divestiture; tender offer; exchange offer; misalignment of interests; shareholder vulnerability; spinoff; split-off; spinout

JEL Classification: G34; G38; K22; K34; M12

Suggested Citation:

Ganor, Mira, The Curious Case of Reverse Morris Trusts (October 1, 2023). U of Texas Law, Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4722516 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4722516
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Cf , Gideon Zohar Goshen , Parchomovsky
The Essential Role of Securities Regulation, 55 DUKE L
J. Duke L. J , volume 711 Posted: 2006
Nyse
) (stating that issuing more than 20% may trigger voting rights under SROs rules and specifically when a change of control Posted: 2024-03-14
Nasdaq
Listing Rule 5635(b)&(d)
the case of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company spinning off its software business in an RMT with the British company Micro Focus International plc in which the HPE's shareholders received American Depositary Shares of the British company. COMM'N SEATTLE SPINCO, INC. AND MICRO FOCUS INT
Information Statement/ Prospectus Posted: 2017-08-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
119
ABSTRACT VIEWS
783
RANK
541,990
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Texas School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies