Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Usefulness of ChatGPT for Textual Analysis of Annual Reports

43 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024

Pawel Bilinski

Bayes Business School, City University London

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

Can predictive AI models be successfully deployed to help investors process complex financial information? We answer this question by examining the usefulness of ChatGPT generated sentiment and complexity scores for a sample of UK annual reports. We document that both measures contain economically significant value-relevant information as captured by their association with (i) price reactions to annual report announcements and (ii) future levels and changes in profitability. Further, both measures predict dispersion in investor beliefs suggesting they capture differences in how investors process textual content of annual reports. The results suggest that investors can employ predictive AI models, such as ChatGPT, to aid them in analyzing textual characteristics of annual reports.

Keywords: AI; ChatGPT; textual analysis; sentiment analysis; annual reports

JEL Classification: C45, D80, G3, G11, G12, G14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bilinski, Pawel, The Usefulness of ChatGPT for Textual Analysis of Annual Reports (February 12, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4723503 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4723503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
68 References
M Azimi , A Agrawal
Is positive sentiment in corporate annual reports informative? Evidence from deep learning
The Review of Asset Pricing Studies , volume 11 , p. 762 - 805 Posted: 2021
M Barth , W Landsman , V Raval , S Wang
Asymmetric timeliness and the resolution of investor disagreement and uncertainty at earnings announcements
The Accouitnng Review , volume 95 , p. 23 - 50 Posted: 2020
V Beattie
Accounting narratives and the narrative turn in accounting research: Issues, theory, methodology, methods and a research framework , volume 46 , p. 111 - 134 Posted: 2014
E Bender , T Gebru , A Mcmillan-Major , S Shmitchell
On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,238
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,643
RANK
38,556
1 Citations
68 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies