Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Policy Forum: Cognitive Bias as a Factor in Determining the Efficiency of Sliding Scales

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1069-1082

14 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2024

Colin Romano

Goodmans LLP

Date Written: February 19, 2024

Abstract

In tax law, sharp lines occur where a minimal change in a taxpayer’s circumstances results in significantly different legal treatment. Sharp-line tests are criticized because they encourage taxpayers to alter their optimal behaviour for purely tax reasons, thereby producing deadweight loss. The most obvious alternatives to sharp-line tests are sliding scales, which operate by imposing tax proportionately on the basis of where taxpayers fall along a continuum. Scholars, including Edward Fox and Jacob Goldin, have suggested that the adoption of sliding scales in determining tax liability as opposed to the use of sharp-line tests could reduce deadweight loss in many contexts. However, the adoption of sliding scales generally comes at the cost of greater complexity, which can lead taxpayers to make systematic errors in selecting optimal behaviours and can also introduce cognitive biases. This article argues that smoothing existing sharp-line tests may not bring about predicted efficiency gains if such predictions rely on taxpayers behaving optimally. Rather, a more accurate determination of the change in deadweight loss occasioned by a shift from sharp lines to sliding scales would also account for the effects of cognitive bias. In order to illustrate the concepts dealt with herein, this article establishes a simplified example based on tax residence to explain the concepts of deadweight loss, sharp lines, and sliding scales in the context of Fox and Goldin’s suggestion that sliding scales would be more efficient than sharp lines in many circumstances.

Keywords: ECONOMICS, ECONOMIC THEORY, RESIDENCE, POLICY

Suggested Citation:

Romano, Colin, Policy Forum: Cognitive Bias as a Factor in Determining the Efficiency of Sliding Scales (February 19, 2024). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 71, No. 4, 2023, pp. 1069-1082, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
See , Bartolome De
As Liebman and Zeckhauser point out, behavioural theory prefigures ironing in the concept of melioration. Melioration was developed from Herrnstein's "matching law
R J Herrnstein , William Vaughan , J E R Staddon
Melioration and Behavioral Allocation
Limits to Action: The Allocation of Individual Behavior , p. 140 - 176 Posted: 1980
J Richard , Richard J Herrnstein , Howard Herrnstein , David Rachlin , ; J E Laibson , Mazur
Optimization Theory Fails To Predict Performance of Pigeons in a Two-Response Situation
The Matching Law: Papers in Psychology and Economics , volume 214 , p. 4522 - 4823 Posted: 1981
Zeckhauser Liebman
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
295
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies