Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Economics of the Tax Gross-Up

Tax Notes Federal, Volume 182, Number 2, 2024

6 Pages Posted: 19 Mar 2024

Islame Hosny

Columbia University; Pryor Cashman LLP

Date Written: January 8, 2024

Abstract

This article discusses the use of tax gross-up provisions in mergers and acquisitions and other transactions. One interesting phenomenon in connection with the tax gross-up formula is that, with respect to any after-tax payment, as the recipient’s tax rate becomes larger, the amount of the grossed up payment increases. In theory, as the recipient’s tax rate approaches 100%, the grossed up payment approaches infinity. While the recipient’s tax cost without a gross-up increases proportionately in relation to increases in the recipient’s tax rate, the cost of the gross-up to the paying party increases at an accelerated rate, which may result in a disproportionate impact of the gross-up on the parties. Depending on the particular facts of each transaction, parties intending to enter into agreements with tax gross-up provisions should consider placing a cap on gross-ups to prevent unintended consequences. Although a tax gross-up is usually viewed as a benign provision intended to make one party to the transaction whole, the economics of the gross-up formula should be managed to not only achieve that result, but also to prevent the quantum of the tax gross up from having a disproportionate negative impact on the paying party.

Keywords: Mergers and acquisitions, deal economics, tax, business, transactions, negotiation, gross up, tax rate, pretax payment, after tax payment, tax cost, gross up formula, gross up cap, grossed up payment, tax gross up, make whole payment, infinite series, mathematical formula.

Suggested Citation:

Hosny, Islame, Managing the Economics of the Tax Gross-Up (January 8, 2024). Tax Notes Federal, Volume 182, Number 2, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4730750
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
522
RANK
610,038
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies