Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Discussion of 'Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings'

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 36, Nos. 1-3, pp. 321-336, December 2003

Posted: 28 Nov 2003 Last revised: 15 Jul 2010

Mark T Bradshaw

Boston College

Date Written: July 15, 2010

Abstract

By analyzing a carefully constructed earnings announcements sample that discloses a 'pro forma' earnings number, Bhattacharya, Black, Christensen, and Larson (2002) contribute to recent research documenting increasing differences between GAAP earnings and alternative earnings definitions followed by capital markets. The paper provides interesting descriptive data on pro forma earnings per share relative to both GAAP earnings per share and actual earnings per share as tracked by I/B/E/S. Also, the authors conduct tests of the relative informativeness and persistence of these three earnings measures. Econometric and data limitations inhibit the inferences that can be drawn from some of these tests.

Keywords: pro forma earnings, information content of earnings, persistence of earnings, analysts' forecasts

JEL Classification: G12, G14, G29, M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

Bradshaw, Mark T, A Discussion of 'Assessing the Relative Informativeness and Permanence of Pro Forma Earnings and Gaap Operating Earnings' (July 15, 2010). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Vol. 36, Nos. 1-3, pp. 321-336, December 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=473182
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,979
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Harvard Business School: Negotiation, Organizations & Markets Unit Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies