Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Section 1031 Exchange Requirement

Brooklyn Journal of Corporate; Financial & Commercial Law, Vol 18, p. 407, (2024)

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 762

90 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2024

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: February 27, 2024

Abstract

Section 1031 is the most widely used transactional tax-planning tool in federal income tax law. It allows owners of real property to transfer their property and acquire like-kind real property without recognizing taxable gain. Yet one of its most fundamental elements—the exchange requirement—remains under-analyzed and widely misunderstood, with costly consequences to untold numbers of taxpayers every year. Inaccurate information regarding the exchange requirement is disseminated to property owners by advisors and exchange professionals, causing property owners to forego business and transactional opportunities. Other property owners pay for costly transactional planning at the urging of advisors who misunderstand the exchange requirement. Thus, the section 1031 exchange requirement is in desperate need of in-depth analysis and clarification. This Article applies in-depth analysis to demystify the exchange requirement. The resulting clarity will relieve property owners of costs resulting from lost opportunity and expensive transactional-planning.

The costly pressure points related to the exchange requirement are most pronounced with exchanges that commonly occur (or would occur more commonly with a clear understanding of the exchange requirement) in proximity to tax-free business transactions (i.e., contributions to and distributions from entities). This Article draws from legislation, legislative history, case law, IRS guidance, and tax policy to show that the exchange requirement attracts a form-driven analysis, which deviates from the standard substance-over-form analyses that apply to most federal income tax issues. The Article shows that courts deliberately adopt the form-driven analysis and shun substance-over-form analyses because the latter fail to provide clarity, and it shows how that analytical framework applies to exchanges that occur in proximity to business transactions. This novel analysis and understanding of the section 1031 exchange requirement provides newfound clarity to judges, advisors, property owners, scholars, and commentators. In doing so, it will free property owners to engage in business transactions confidently, forego costly transactional structures, and thereby increase general economic activity.

Keywords: section 1031, tenancy-in-common, drop-and-swap, qualified-use requirement, investment purpose, held for productive use in a trade or business

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., The Section 1031 Exchange Requirement (February 27, 2024). Brooklyn Journal of Corporate; Financial & Commercial Law, Vol 18, p. 407, (2024), Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 762, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4740858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Rev. Rul , p. 77 - 297
Id
Alderson v. Comm'r, 317 F , volume 2 Posted: 1963
Id
Id
Rev. Rul , volume 84 , issue 121 , p. 75 - 291 Posted: 1200
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
967
RANK
478,514
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies