Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing Sugar Babies

Minnesota Law Review, Forthcoming

78 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2024 Last revised: 12 Jan 2025

Bridget J. Crawford

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: February 12, 2024

Abstract

How people talk about taxes reflects both personal beliefs and larger cultural attitudes. In many cases, whether and how a potential taxpayer understands their activities in tax terms may also reveal attitudes about themselves and the value that society assigns to those activities. This Article examines how sugar daddies/mamas and sugar babies talk about taxes in two internet discussion forums to reveal the ongoing stigma associated with sex work. Through mostly content analysis, the focus is on the attitudes of sugar daddies/mamas and sugar babies toward taxation and the filing positions they take, as well as how tax professionals intervene in online discourse at the intersection of tax laws and sugaring.


The Article makes three principal claims—one descriptive, one normative, and one predictive. First, the dominant discourse among sugar daddies/mamas and sugar babies is that a sugar baby receives “gifts,” not income in exchange for companionship that usually (but not always) includes a sexual element. A discernible counternarrative emerges from apparent tax professionals who take the view that a sugar baby’s receipts are income. This position is likely true as a technical tax matter. However, it is unlikely that the tax authorities will seek to prosecute sugar babies for failure to report income. Sugaring occupies a gray area between private, intimate relationships, on the one hand, and commercial sex work, on the other. The persistence of tax talk that a sugar baby’s receipts are gifts helps maintain this gray area, even though the non-taxation of a sugar baby’s receipts hurts the government, in the form of lost tax revenue, and sugar babies themselves, who do not receive credit for their work toward Social Security and other programs that depend on years of market labor. The persistence of the gift rhetoric further devalues the sugar baby’s efforts, ignores the emotional and physical risks associated with sugaring, and perpetuates longstanding stigmas against sex work.


Keywords: sugar baby, sugar babies, sugar daddy, sugar daddies, sugaring, tax, sugar bowl, sex work, prostitution

JEL Classification: K1, K34

Suggested Citation:

Crawford, Bridget J., Taxing Sugar Babies (February 12, 2024). Minnesota Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4741172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,694
RANK
200,226
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies