Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual Accounting Practices: Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises in Eastern Samar

35 Pages Posted: 3 Apr 2024

Ervin Villalon

University of London

Date Written: March 3, 2024

Abstract

MSMEs (Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Enterprises) are an important part of the Philippine economy, contributing significantly to employment, economic value-added, and export revenues. Despite their importance, MSMEs confront obstacles in reaching their full potential, especially when compared to their ASEAN peers. The Philippines adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards for SMEs (IFRS for SMEs) in 2010 in an effort to improve financial reporting in this industry. While this framework requires most SMEs to adopt accrual accounting, Micro firms are given the option to use other accounting systems primarily for tax compliance. However, implementing accrual accounting is fraught with practical issues relating to accounting service costs, transaction simplicity, accounting knowledge, and regulatory requirements, leaving MSMEs torn between cash and accrual accounting. The purpose of this study is to explore the use of accrual accounting systems by MSMEs in both rural and urban areas of Eastern Samar, Philippines. Based on previous research that identified convenience, tax considerations, accounting expertise, and cost-benefit analysis as impediments to accrual accounting method compliance, this study employs non-probability quota sampling and Likert Scale assessments. To investigate the relationships and differences in responses between MSMEs and accountants, statistical techniques such as Chi-square and t-tests are used. According to survey results based on data from 104 firms, the majority of which are micro-enterprises, cash accounting remains the favored choice among MSMEs, while accountants prefer accrual and modified cash systems. This study lends credence to the concept of widespread noncompliance with IFRS for SME regulations, regardless of location. The study analyzes eight major compliance characteristics that influence accounting system selection, pointing out certain differences between MSMEs and accountants. Importantly, both groups stress the importance of financial statement accounts for managerial decision-making, emphasizing its importance in MSME firm operations.

Keywords: MSME, Accrual, GAAP, Accounting

JEL Classification: n.a.

Suggested Citation:

Villalon, Ervin, Accrual Accounting Practices: Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises in Eastern Samar (March 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4746402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4746402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Chi 2 test statistics for accounting methods between rural and urban municipalities
2 tailed T-test for reasons of compliance on MSMEs and accountants' perspectives
tailed T-test for financial statements relevance in decision making on the perspective of MSMEs and accountants
R M Aldaba , C Harvie , S Oum , D Narjoko
SMEs Access to Finance: Philippines
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Access to Finance in Selected East Asian Economies , p. 291 - 350 Posted: 2011-08-25
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,272
RANK
122,264
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies