Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AI, New Technologies, and Corporate Governance: Three Phenomena

47 Seattle University Law Review 1639 (2024)

55 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2024

Martin Petrin

York University - Osgoode Hall Law School; York University - Schulich School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

Artificial intelligence (AI) and other new technologies are increasingly influencing the operations, business models, and structures of companies. This Article focuses on three emerging phenomena that impact significant aspects of corporate governance and regulation: (1) perforation and blurring of firm boundaries through the ubiquitous use of externally provided AI services; (2) businesses engaging in strategic access and leveraging of critical resources held by third parties without owning them; and (3) the unusual hybrid role of online platforms between market facilitators and markets themselves. The Article explores how these phenomena challenge traditional views of firms as separate units, with technology leading to new connections and entanglements between a firm, the market, and other firms. Based on this, the Article argues that existing models and concepts are inadequate for addressing the challenges posed by the digital and AI revolution. It calls for a reevaluation of corporate governance strategies, highlighting the importance of resource optimization and shared governance. It also proposes the creation of regulatory frameworks to mitigate power imbalances and ensure adequate access to AI and the platform economy.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, AI, generative, ChatGPT, platforms, Uber, Airbnb, corporate governance, theory of the firm, transaction costs, Coase, boards, corporate law, regulation, asset specificity, resource dependence theory, AI Act, Digital Services Act, Digital Markets Act

JEL Classification: K20, K22, O30, O32, O33

Suggested Citation:

Petrin, Martin, AI, New Technologies, and Corporate Governance: Three Phenomena (July 01, 2024). 47 Seattle University Law Review 1639 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4754530
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
179 References
Luca Enriques , Dirk A Zetsche
Corporate Technologies and the Tech Nirvana Fallacy, 72 HASTINGS L
J , volume 55 , p. 62 - 67 Posted: 2020
Hashai Hamdani , & Kandel , Yafeh
, p. 219 - 220
Mckinsey See , Co , Value , In , Metaverse
estimating that the metaverse may have a market impact of between $2 and $2 , volume 6 Posted: 2022
Richard Waters , Goldman
Sachs Predicts Quantum Computing 5 Years Away from Use in Markets Posted: 2021-04-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
416
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,887
RANK
161,215
179 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies