Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Laws and Regulations and of the Shareholders' Discretion in the Classification of Financial Instruments – A Preliminary Analysis

18 Pages Posted: 4 Apr 2024 Last revised: 10 Apr 2024

Diogo Pessoa

Universidade Católica Portuguesa

Date Written: March 11, 2024

Abstract

In this article, we analyze the effects of the relevant laws and regulations and of the shareholders’ discretion regarding the classification of financial instruments as liabilities or equity, taking into account the Exposure Draft presented by the International Accounting Standards Board on the 29th of November 2023.

Keywords: Liability; Equity; IAS 32

Suggested Citation:

Pessoa, Diogo, The Effects of Laws and Regulations and of the Shareholders' Discretion in the Classification of Financial Instruments – A Preliminary Analysis (March 11, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4755614 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4755614
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
332
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies