Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Weiser Case: UK Pension Income Not Subject to Tax in Israel Under the Israel-United Kingdom Income Tax Treaty (1962)

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 6 ; p. 280-282; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vtwz3s

Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Brian Cleave

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: May 2, 2013

Abstract

In this article, the author considers the recent decision of the UK First-tier Tribunal in the case of Weiser, concerning an Israeli resident taxpayer and whether his UK pension income was "subject to tax" in Israel and, consequently, exempt from UK tax under the Israel-United Kingdom Income Tax Treaty (1962).

Full-text Paper

Keywords: case law, tax treaty, pension, subject to tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Cleave, Brian, The Weiser Case: UK Pension Income Not Subject to Tax in Israel Under the Israel-United Kingdom Income Tax Treaty (1962) (May 2, 2013). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 67 (2013), no. 6 ; p. 280-282; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3vtwz3s, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765965
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
88
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies