Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tax Trap Inside the BOXX

Tax Notes Federal, vol. 182, pp. 1973-1980 (Mar. 11, 2024) (cover story)

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 24-26

9 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2024

Daniel J. Hemel

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 11, 2024

Abstract

In recent weeks, an exchange-traded fund called Alpha Architect 1-3 Month Box ETF (trading under the ticker symbol “BOXX”) has garnered attention in the financial press for its supposedly tax-efficient method of generating nearly risk-free returns. BOXX purports to produce Treasury bill-like yields while deferring any income tax liabilities until shareholders sell their ETF shares. And when shareholders do sell, their gains — according to BOXX promoters — will be taxed as capital gain rather than ordinary income, an additional advantage over ordinary income-generating Treasury bills.

If all that sounds too good to be true, it’s because it most likely is too good to be true. BOXX’s strategy runs headlong into two code provisions — section 1258 and section 1092 — that are designed to prevent the sorts of maneuvers that BOXX seeks to exploit. In light of these provisions, BOXX shareholders in most states are likely to end up in a worse position than if they had simply purchased Treasury bills. For BOXX shareholders, an ostensibly tax-efficient investment may turn into a tax trap.

This article considers the application of the section 1258 conversion transaction rules and the section 1092 straddle rules to BOXX’s too-clever-by-half tax strategy. After examining BOXX’s disclosures to reconstruct the fund’s trades, it evaluates both the fund-level and shareholder-level tax consequences of BOXX’s maneuvers. In contrast to other commentary emphasizing the possibility that capital gains on sales of the BOXX ETF could be recharacterized as ordinary income at the shareholder level, this article concludes that the IRS would likely succeed in recharacterizing gains from BOXX’s trades as ordinary income at the fund level. Whereas shareholder-level recharacterization would leave BOXX’s deferral benefits in place, fund-level recharacterization would erase both the deferral and rate-arbitrage benefits that BOXX advertises.

Keywords: exchange-traded fund, conversion transactions, straddle rules, tax arbitrage

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemel, Daniel J., The Tax Trap Inside the BOXX (March 11, 2024). Tax Notes Federal, vol. 182, pp. 1973-1980 (Mar. 11, 2024) (cover story), NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 24-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4771447
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,649
RANK
197,664
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies