Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The IRS’s Position on Section 1031 Straddle Exchanges Is Half Wrong

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 764

Tax Notes Federal, Vol. 181, p. 1193, (Nov. 13, 2023)

15 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2024

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: March 26, 2024

Abstract

When a section 1031 exchange straddles tax years and includes liability relief, exchangers must determine whether gain is recognized in the year of disposition of the relinquished property or in the subsequent year when the exchanger acquires replacement property or the exchange terminates. In Rev. Rul. 2003-56, the IRS took the position that the timing of the gain depends upon whether the exchanger replaces the relinquished liability.

The IRS's position is that if the exchanger replaces the relinquished liability in the subsequent year, the exchanger has no liability-relief boot in the prior year. If the exchanger does not replace the relinquished liability in the subsequent year, the exchanger has liability-relief boot in the year of the disposition. Thus, the IRS treats exchangers differently in the year of disposition based upon what happens in the subsequent year. That dissimilar treatment of similarly situated exchangers seems fundamentally wrong.

The IRS's Position on Section 1031 Straddle Exchanges is Half Wrong, at the link below, explains how general tax principles such as the open-transaction principle and annual accounting require treating an exchange that straddles tax years. The article concludes that those general principles require leaving the exchange open until the subsequent tax year and require liability-relief boot to be recognized in the subsequent year. The article shows how the IRS's position violates the fundamental tax concept of equity by treating exchangers differently even though their situations are similar at the end of the first tax year. Treating two similarly situated exchangers differently suggest that the IRS position is half wrong (or half right).

Keywords: section 1031, liability relief, installment sale, straddle exchanges

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., The IRS’s Position on Section 1031 Straddle Exchanges Is Half Wrong (March 26, 2024). Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 764, Tax Notes Federal, Vol. 181, p. 1193, (Nov. 13, 2023), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4773715
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
631,616
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies