Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trusts and Taxation in Switzerland

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 4/5 (special issue) ; p. 240-245; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xhf0rr

Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Pierre Gillioz

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Nicole Fragnière Meyer

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 19, 2015

Abstract

The authors, in this article, examine the treatment of trusts and the taxation of settlors and beneficiaries resident in Switzerland. They also explore the advantages and disadvantages of modifying trust deeds before and after the settlors and/or the beneficiaries move to Switzerland and become Swiss taxpayers.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: trust, inheritance law, gift tax

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gillioz, Pierre and Fragnière Meyer, Nicole, Trusts and Taxation in Switzerland (March 19, 2015). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 4/5 (special issue) ; p. 240-245; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2xhf0rr, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774591
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies