Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Taxation of Philantropy in Switzerland: Current Status and Suggestions for Improvement

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 4/5 (special issue) ; p. 233-239; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/31kkn2d

Posted: 29 Mar 2024

Xavier Oberson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 27, 2015

Abstract

In this contribution, the author describes the current rules with regard to the taxation of philanthropic activities in Switzerland and makes various suggestions for improvements to the current regime. In this respect, the developments in EU law with regard to cross-border giving are also taken into account.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: charities, charities, donations to, tax policy, exemption, deductions

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Oberson, Xavier, The Taxation of Philantropy in Switzerland: Current Status and Suggestions for Improvement (March 27, 2015). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 4/5 (special issue) ; p. 233-239; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/31kkn2d, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774590
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
30
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies