Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Estate Investment and the France-Luxembourg Income and Capital Tax Treaty (1958): The End of an Era?

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 1 ; p. 49-51; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/tmdhzq

Posted: 30 Mar 2024

Julien Saïac

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 12, 2014

Abstract

The Protocol (2014) to the France-Luxembourg Income and Capital Tax Treaty (1958) provides for the taxation of real estate income and capital gains in the state where the property is located, whether held, directly or indirectly, by an individual or a corporation, thereby blocking a well-known tax loophole.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: real estate investment fund, capital gains, tax evasion, foreign investment

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Saïac, Julien, Real Estate Investment and the France-Luxembourg Income and Capital Tax Treaty (1958): The End of an Era? (December 12, 2014). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 69 (2015), no. 1 ; p. 49-51; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/tmdhzq, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4774510
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
69
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies