Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Rules on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 6 ; p. 322-328; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2yev2kq

Posted: 5 Apr 2024

Giorgio Beretta

Carlo Cattaneo - LIUC University

Date Written: May 11, 2016

Abstract

In this article, the author examines both the former and new rules for the computation of income attributable to Italian permanent establishments (PEs) and analyses the qualification of business income of non-resident enterprises under Italian tax law. Further, the recently enacted branch exemption regime, pursuant to which resident enterprises may opt for an exemption in respect of the profits of foreign PEs from the Italian tax base, is discussed.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: allocation of profits, PE, force of attraction, income classification, exemption

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Beretta, Giorgio, New Rules on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments (May 11, 2016). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 70 (2016), no. 6 ; p. 322-328; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/2yev2kq, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4776285
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
50
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Economic Law eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies