Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Section 1031 Qualified-Use Requirement

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 765

Brooklyn Journal of Corporate, Financial & Commercial Law, Vol. 18, p. 497 (2024)

90 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2024

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

This article uses exhaustive research and analysis of all known qualified-use cases and rulings to show that the qualified-use requirement does not include a holding-period requirement. The article shows that there are several types of qualified-use exchanges that fall within two broad categories—(1) exchanges and proximate business transactions and (2) exchanges and proximate general transactions. The case law and rulings that are relevant to one category of exchanges have little to no relevance to the other category of exchanges. The application of relevant authority clearly shows, particularly with respect to exchanges and proximate business transactions, that exchangers do not have to hold property for any period of time between the time of the distribution or contribution and exchange.

The article also provides multiple tables that summarize information from cases and rulings related to the type of exchange under consideration, the period for which the exchanger held the property, and whether the holding period spanned taxable years. Studying the information in those tables shows how holdings periods and tax outcomes do not correlate and how there simply is no support for the idea that holding exchange property until a subsequent tax year helps establish qualified-use.

Keywords: section 1031, tenancy-in-common, drop-and-swap, qualified-use requirement, investment purpose, held for productive use in a trade or business, exchange requirement, TICnership

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., The Section 1031 Qualified-Use Requirement (April 1, 2024). Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 765, Brooklyn Journal of Corporate, Financial & Commercial Law, Vol. 18, p. 497 (2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Marinos V Comm'r
T C M
Posted: 1989
Cokes V Comm , T C
Bussing v. Comm'r, 89 T.C. 1050 Posted: 1987
C M
Press v. Comm'r Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
130
ABSTRACT VIEWS
916
RANK
505,351
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies