Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Shields, the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, and the Appropriate Discount Rate for a Project with a Finite Useful Life

Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 2023

17 Pages Posted: 10 May 2024

Morris G. Danielson

Saint Joseph's University - Department of Finance

Date Written: December 1, 2023

Abstract

The standard formulas for calculating the value of a firm’s tax shield and its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) use the assumption that the underlying cash flows are perpetuities. Yet, most projects will have a finite useful life. Because the perpetuity approach will overstate the value of a finite-life project’s tax shield, this factor will pressure the perpetuity-formula WACC to be less than the finite-life WACC. However, a large portion of the value of a perpetual tax shield can be attributed to interest payments during the next 5, 10, or 25 years, making it possible for the perpetuity-formula WACC to be greater than the finite-life WACC. Using a series of numerical examples, this paper shows that the finite-life WACC can be either higher or lower than the perpetuity-formula WACC depending on the project’s useful life, the required return on the unlevered project, the firm’s capital structure, the cost of debt, the marginal tax rate, and the debt repayment pattern (e.g., coupon bonds or amortizing loans). The analysis in this article helps managers better understand the potential biases introduced into the capital budgeting process when using the perpetuity-formula WACC to evaluate projects with finite useful lives.

Keywords: Capital budgeting, cost of capital, tax shields, net present value

JEL Classification: G31

Suggested Citation:

Danielson, Morris G., Tax Shields, the Weighted Average Cost of Capital, and the Appropriate Discount Rate for a Project with a Finite Useful Life (December 1, 2023). Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780266
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Fred D Arditti
The Weighted Average Cost of Capital: Some Questions on Its Definition, Interpretation and Use
Journal of Finance , volume 28 , p. 1001 - 1008 Posted: 1973
Massimiliano Barbi
Finding Value Where None Exists: Pitfalls in Using Adjusted Present Value
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance , volume 22 , p. 95 - 104 Posted: 2002
John R Brick , Howard E Thompson
The Economic Life of an Investment and the Appropriate Discount Rate
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 13 , p. 831 - 846 Posted: 1978
Robert F Bruner , M Kenneth , Robert S Eades , Robert C Harris , Higgins
Best Practices in Estimating the Cost of Capital: Survey and Synthesis
Financial Practice and Education , volume 8 , p. 13 - 28 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
856,872
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies