Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Rule Against Perpetual Celebrity

American University Law Review, Vol. 74, 2024

42 Pages Posted: 22 Apr 2024 Last revised: 6 Jan 2025

Yvette Joy Liebesman

Saint Louis University - School of Law

Date Written: April 8, 2024

Abstract

Post-mortem Right of Publicity (“ROP”) statutes have grown from relative obscurity and of little value to a reliable source of nonwage income for those who are lucky enough to be the legatees of a famous now-deceased person. Unlike most other intellectual property rights, there is no federal ROP statute. Rather, an individual’s right of publicity—both while alive and post-mortem— is governed by state law. This has led to a widespread range of term lengths for this right among the states that have either common law or statutory post-mortem ROP rights.
.
While there might be some value in them, if the post-mortem ROP term is too long or infinite, it can exacerbate the wealth disparities; famousness provides a multi-generational benefit to those who have done nothing to earn the fame they are now exploiting and are yet another avenue by which non-wage wealth accumulation moves upward.
.
If we examine the post-mortem ROP through the lens of the Rule Against Perpetuities (“RAP”), where the dead have a limited time in which to control their assets from beyond the grave, we can appreciate that allowing the dead to be exploited should also be limited for analogous reasons to those under RAP. While the purpose of RAP is to prevent the Dead Hand from controlling their property for too long, now we also need to be concerned with the living controlling the property most personal to the dead for too long a period of time.
.
Limiting the term of a post-mortem ROP would promote industriousness and limit the accumulation of unearned wealth and in order to avoid the rent-seeking and other problems associated with a ridiculously long-term control of the rights to a decedent’s exploitable fame. In addition, a shortened term would promote social equity. Thus, famous dead people should not have their personal property rights in their name, likeness and/or image controlled and exploited by their descendants for longer than one generation after the famous person’s death. This is a simplified but analogous term length to what is considered acceptable control of property by the dead under RAP.
.
This Author thus argues that the optimal term length for the post-mortem right of publicity should be either 25 years after the death of the famous person or the death of the last surviving child or spouse of the famous person, whichever comes first. This will ensure that at least one generation of descendants has the ability to exploit their dead parent’s/spouse’s fame, without such exploitation becoming a multi-generational personal welfare system. One generation of control should be enough.

Suggested Citation:

Liebesman, Yvette Joy, The Rule Against Perpetual Celebrity (April 8, 2024). American University Law Review, Vol. 74, 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787946
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
903
RANK
552,835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies