Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Powers of Assessing Officer Under Section 220(6) of Income Tax Act, 1961 – Stay of Demand – A Detailed Analysis

11 Pages Posted: 25 Apr 2024

Sankar Ganesh Subramanian

Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University - School of Excellence in Law (SOEL)

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

Every time an assessment order is issued under sections 143(3), 147, or 271(1)(c), the assessing officer also raises a notice of demand under section 156. Typically, this demand notice must be paid within 30 days after delivery or receipt. Assessee becomes assessee in default if they don't pay the demand within the stipulated time. Then, in accordance with section 220(2), the assessee must pay simple interest at the rate of 1% for each month or portion of a month that is included in the period that starts on the day that follows the conclusion of the time period specified in the demand notice and ends on the day that the demand is paid. Penalties under Section 271 may also apply to this default. If the demand amount, interest, and any applicable penalties are not paid within the allotted period, the AO may use coercive measures to recoup the funds, including attaching the assessee's bank account. A demand notice for any further demands made during the assessment is served when it is finished. Large demands are occasionally made against the assessee by framing very critical assessments because there is disagreement over how the law or the facts should be interpreted, or because the AO is not satisfied with the assessee's responses. For the purposes of this section, any amount that is decided to be payable by the assessee, the deductor, or the collector under sections 143(1), 200A (1), or 206CB(1) will be considered as a notice of demand in the notification under those sections. The author discusses the powers of the assessing authority in this article while staying demand and the vested rights as per Section 220 (6) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.

Keywords: Stay Income Tax Section 220(6)

Suggested Citation:

Subramanian, Dr Sankar Ganesh, Powers of Assessing Officer Under Section 220(6) of Income Tax Act, 1961 – Stay of Demand – A Detailed Analysis (April 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4797454 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4797454
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,343
RANK
682,707
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies