Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regtoken - Scalable Token for Electronic Trading Regulation Reporting

Posted: 30 May 2024

Guy Vishnia

University College London - Financial Computing and Analytics Group, Department of Computer Science

Gareth Peters

University of California Santa Barbara; University of California, Santa Barbara

Date Written: April 18, 2024

Abstract

Regulatory reporting is the process of submitting data and information to a governing body such as the government, financial authority or other accepted agency in order to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Transaction reporting is the process of recording and reporting information about financial transactions to regulatory bodies or other relevant parties. The Information will usually include data about the parties involved in the trade, the assets transferred, price, quantity and such. The required data depends on the type of the traded instrument, for example, an equity transaction will require a different data set than a derivatives transaction, and also on the governing regulator. A US governing body such as SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC \footnote {SEC \url{https://www.sec.gov/}}) might ask for a different set of audit information than the UK Financial and Conduct Authority (FCA \footnote {FCA \url{https://www.fca.org.uk/}}) would ask for.

Distributed applications (DAPPs) that are built initially on a blockchain platform like Ethereum, have verification, auditing, and security are a natural part of the system, but what about non-native applications and processes? many established working processes, systems and applications that at the moment are not running on a distributed ledger environment can gain from moving to one. However, this is a hard move to do, with high risk and most likely has a very big cost attached to it. There are also concerns about speed, throughput and many other performance objectives that were mitigated and solved in the past by the traditional systems.

Tokens, and in particular Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) have been at the heart of the Blockchain world controversy in the last few years. Since started they have been used mostly for selling digital art like The Bored Apes club to other digital assets, the value of these tokens was volatile and unpredictable, and they gained lots of criticism \cite{NFTBubbles} as many end users lost their money in NFT-related scams. \footnote {NFT Scams \url{https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/may/12/nft-scams-mines-cryptocurrency-crypto-con} }

But, what if we can take the intrinsic idea of NFT, which represents ownership of the digital asset, and use it to improve transaction reporting? simplify the regulation process a transaction needs to go through, get immutable regulation data to seamlessly and secure the reporting process, and at the end of it, link the data to other financial processes such as settlement and reporting. We present RegToken, a token for financial regulation purposes, built on NFT erc721 protocol, an innovative way to regulate electronic trading financial transactions, attaching a token to financial transactions and saving the ledger of events and ownership along all the interactions it makes along the way.

Our suggestion in this paper is to create an NFT-like Token that will be created alongside the transactions and spawn on the ledger to collect all related transaction reporting data. As most regulations are non-real-time ( from 15 minutes to T+1 ) we can use off-chain DLT with transaction roll-up to improve performance and cost for this purpose.

For this, we will extend our Auditchain \cite{AuditChain} platform, restructuring and rebuilding it on Ethereum using industry common tools to better demonstrate how this can work in a production environment. The process and structure (and code sample) provided here can be used for other applications, not necessarily financial ones such as for audit of a supply chain, retail transactions, and others. To be precise, we envision this system as an out-of-the-box way for parties to share the same distributed ledger and harness its properties, whether by an agreeable verification process, tracing, auditing up to creating a second on-chain market and more.

Keywords: Regulatory reporting, Regulation, Blockchain, Non Fungible Tokens, NFT, Auditing, Distributed Ledger, Electronic Trading

Suggested Citation:

Vishnia, Guy and Peters, Gareth, Regtoken - Scalable Token for Electronic Trading Regulation Reporting (April 18, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4799161
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
207
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies