Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Wrongful Death Statutes Can Kill an Estate Plan:  Part 1

Estate Planning Journal, February/March 2024, 51 EST. PLAN. 23

10 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2024

Noel Brock

Eastern Michigan Univeristy

Mackenzie M. Festa

Eastern Michigan University

Date Written: February 1, 2024

Abstract

Parents do numerous things for their minor children-both tangible and intangible. Parents provide minor children with food and shelter and do what they can to keep them in good health. They also do all they can to ensure their children are educated. Beyond these tangible things, parents try to pass on their values and teach their children their religious beliefs. When only one parent dies or becomes incapacitated, the surviving parent generally carries on this role. When both parents either die or become incapacitated while their child is still a minor, the child needs a substitute parent. A guardian assumes the responsibilities of the parent in such situations. A minor child guardianship occurs when an adult (the 'guardian') is named by a state court judge to care for an unemancipated minor (the 'ward' or 'minor child') whose parents are unable or unwilling to care for the child. 1 Once appointed, the guardian has the same rights and obligations under the law as a parent. However, a guardianship of an unemancipated minor does not become effective until the occurrence of some event renders both parents unable to serve as the guardian (usually death or disability of the parents 2). Thus, it is critical for parents to name a guardian, and perhaps one or more alternative guardians in both their will (in the event of their death) as well as in a durable

Keywords: Minor, Guardian, Guardianship, Trust, Estate, Wrongful Death Recovery, Estate Plan

JEL Classification: K11, K36, K00, K19, K30, K39

Suggested Citation:

Brock, Noel and Festa, Mackenzie M., How Wrongful Death Statutes Can Kill an Estate Plan:  Part 1 (February 1, 2024). Estate Planning Journal, February/March 2024, 51 EST. PLAN. 23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4830132
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Id
, volume 71 Posted: 2019
Id
Posted: 2019
Texas Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code section , volume 71 , issue 21 Posted: 2019
Fla
Fla. Stat. section , volume 37 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
419
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wills, Trusts, & Estates Law eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies