Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The (Non)Taxation of Student Debt Cancellation: Statutory Misinterpretation and Normative Conflict

National Tax Journal, Volume 77, No. 3. Pp. 623-653

Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4831346

31 Pages Posted: 17 May 2024

John R. Brooks

Fordham University School of Law

Date Written: May 16, 2024

Abstract

Student debt cancellation is an increasingly important form of subsidy for higher education and reflects a shift toward financing higher education with income-contingent loans. But the legal formalities of debt cancellation expose borrowers to the risk of taxation, especially after 2025. This paper shows that the IRS and Treasury's position that student debt cancellation is sometimes taxable is based on a misreading of the tax code and its history. I further argue that this misreading arises in part because of the conflicting norms of tax policy and non-tax social policy, a conflict that arises in other transfer contexts as well.

Keywords: student loans, student debt, tax law, higher education finance, statutory interpretation, general welfare exclusion

JEL Classification: H52, H53, I22, K34

Suggested Citation:

Brooks, John R., The (Non)Taxation of Student Debt Cancellation: Statutory Misinterpretation and Normative Conflict (May 16, 2024). National Tax Journal, Volume 77, No. 3. Pp. 623-653, Fordham Law Legal Studies Research Paper No. 4831346, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4831346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4831346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
652
RANK
496,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fordham Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies