Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Handling a Case with Potential Criminal Problems

Chapter 13 in Effectively Representing Your Client Before the IRS (Christine S. Speidel & Patrick W. Thomas, eds., 8th ed. 2021)

85 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2024

Scott A. Schumacher

University of Washington - School of Law

Mark Matthews

University of Washington - School of Law

Date Written: May 24, 2024

Abstract

This chapter addresses issues facing taxpayers whose conduct has crossed the line from mere negligence or civil fraud into the realm of criminal conduct. With a “tax gap” of approximately $441 billion per year, the government relies on criminal tax prosecutions to “to protect the public interest in preserving the integrity of the nation’s tax system. Criminal tax prosecutions serve to punish the violator and promote respect for the tax laws.” However, the line between civil and criminal tax cases is often blurry, and many cases that could be prosecuted criminally are resolved through civil tax proceedings. The purpose of this chapter is to educate general tax practitioners to make them conversant on the subject and to assist them in knowing when a civil tax case has criminal potential. It is not intended to teach a general tax practitioner how to represent someone in this area of the law.

Criminal tax cases involve a willful violation of the law. The most common crimes are tax evasion, false statements on a return, and failure to file. In general, the government must bring charges for tax crimes within six years of the due date of the return. The government generally seeks to prosecute individuals whose tax crimes will result in a significant prison sentences, and it is there-fore more likely to prosecute high net worth individuals or cases where there is a significant tax loss to the government. Nevertheless, the government does not want to create the appearance of a “safe zone” for low-level tax evasion, so the possibility of prosecution remains for any taxpayer who crosses the line into criminal conduct. As a result, all tax practitioners must be knowledgeable about tax crimes and relevant government procedures to fully advise their clients.

Keywords: tax law, tax practice, tax crimes, Internal Revenue Service, IRS, tax evasion, tax fraud

Suggested Citation:

Schumacher, Scott A. and Matthews, Mark, Handling a Case with Potential Criminal Problems (May 24, 2024). Chapter 13 in Effectively Representing Your Client Before the IRS (Christine S. Speidel & Patrick W. Thomas, eds., 8th ed. 2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840546
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Statistical Data -Identity Theft Investigations
See UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, TAX DIVISION Posted: 1965
I R C
§ 7201; however, 18 U.S.C. § 3571 overrides the mandatory fine for § 7201 and other crimes by providing higher potential fines, including a fine of $250,000 in the case of an individual convicted of a felony and $500
Kim
, volume 884
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
564
RANK
856,872
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies