Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Profession and Web Assurance Service

11 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2004

Mohamed M. El-Dyasty

Mansoura University

Date Written: January 5, 2004

Abstract

Transactions volume performed through Internet is not attaining expectations. Customers feel worry and fear to expose to fraud and misuse their private information. To overcome this problem, some organizations established to provide trust in E commerce transactions through what is known as Web Assurance service. These organizations provide services resemble what is known in accounting arena as Assurance Services which provided by auditing firms.

American institute of Certified Accountants (AICPA) and Canadian Institute of Charted Accountants (CICA) adopted and implemented a joint project to create a new assurance service in order to provide trust in E commerce transactions. That service known as WebTrust. Thus, accountants entered a new environment of hard competition to increase their revenues and compensate slow growth of their traditional services like financial statements audits. Unfortunately, WebTrust is not growing as expected. Competitors prevailed and their brands became more popular in E commerce filed. So, many accounting studies are devoted to evaluate WebTrust and explore possibilities of improvements. This study aimed to illustrate the need of trust and nature of web assurance seals and to discuss Web assurance research.

Keywords: Web Assurance service, assurance seals, webtrust

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

El-Dyasty, Mohamed M., Accounting Profession and Web Assurance Service (January 5, 2004). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=484282 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.484282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants / Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants. WebTrust SM/TM Program Online Privacy
F Belanger , J Hiller , W Smith
Trustworthiness in electronic commerce: the role of privacy, security, and site attributes. The Journal of Strategic Information Systems Posted: 2002-12
J Cashell , G Aldhizer
WebTrust: A Seal of Approval. Internal Auditor Posted: 1999-06
G Gray , M Gray
Internal auditors and Web trust. Internal Auditor Posted: 1999-06
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
519
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,005
RANK
123,946
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Privacy in E-Commerce: Development of Reporting Standards, Disclosure and Assurance Services in an Unregulated Market

By Karim Jamal, Michael S. Maier, ...

The Effect of Stock Spam on Financial Markets

By Rainer Böhme and Thorsten Holz

Pricing Electronic Mail to Solve the Problem of Spam

By Robert E. Kraut, Shyam Sunder, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies