Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artist Taxation, Social Security and VAT

8 Pages Posted: 30 May 2024

Dick Molenaar

Erasmus School of Law - Section Tax Law

Date Written: May 26, 2024

Abstract

International artist taxation is very special, because of Article 17 of the OECD Model Tax Convention, which has been followed in most of the bilateral tax treaties. Different from Article 7 (companies and self-employed) and Article 15 (employees), Article 17 allocates the taxing right in any situation to the country of the work of the performing artists (entertainers) and sportspersons. Most countries are effectively taxing foreign artists with their national tax rates.
The article describes how this works in practice and what the tax rates per country are. Also whether national exceptions can be used and what the minimum threshold with the USA.
Furthermore, this article explains social security for performing artists and VAT rates for entrance tickets for performances.

Keywords: Artist taxation

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Molenaar, Dick, Artist Taxation, Social Security and VAT (May 26, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4842672 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4842672
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
RANK
872,691
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Economics eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies