Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Natural Language Processing – Part I: Primer - Unveiling the Hidden Information in Earnings Calls

S&P Global Market Intelligence Quantamental Report, September 2017

29 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2024

Frank Zhao

S&P Global

Date Written: September 01, 2017

Abstract

Interest in natural language processing (NLP) has grown in earnest since Turing’s publication “Computing Machinery and Intelligence” in 1950. In his seminal work, Turing laid out his criterion for intelligence – a computer could be considered intelligent if it can interact with humans without them ever realizing they were dealing with a machine. NLP at its core is the embodiment of that vision where consumers of NLP obtain useful insights from data without ever needing to know whether they are interacting with a machine. Given the growing interest in NLP among investors, we are publishing this primer to demystify many aspects of NLP and provide three illustrations, with accompanying Python code, of how NLP can be used to quantify the sentiment of earnings calls.

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Frank, Natural Language Processing – Part I: Primer - Unveiling the Hidden Information in Earnings Calls (September 01, 2017). S&P Global Market Intelligence Quantamental Report, September 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4852446 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4852446
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
W Antweiler , M Z Frank
Is all that talk just noise? the information content of internet stock message boards
Journal of Finance , volume 59 , p. 1259 - 1293 Posted: 2004
S Bansal
Ultimate Guide to Understand & Implement Natural Language Processing Posted: 2012
M Bradley , P Lang
Active norms for English words (ANEW): Stimuli, instruction manual and active ratings
Technical report C-1 Posted: 1999
M Copeland
What's the Difference Between Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning? Posted: 2016-07-29
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
636
RANK
487,221
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies