Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Surveys for Accounting Standard Setters: Evidence from East African vs. Nordic Credit Professionals

40 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2024

Harri Seppänen

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Timo Teinila

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 1, 2024

Abstract

We employed a survey to examine agreements and disagreements in the opinions of a class of sophisticated accounting information users from two divergent institutional environments about several aspects of useful accounting information in credit risk assessment. We find little evidence that the professionals' opinions between the two subsamples differ, and there is no evidence of conflicting opinions, or even evidence of heterogeneous and conflicting opinions within the subsamples. The evidence suggests that the survey method can provide reliable and generalizable evidence even from a relatively small sample when non-probabilistic sampling and focused and representative samples are used. The study aims to enhance our understanding of the validity of international survey evidence for accounting standard setting process.

Keywords: accounting information, standard setting, survey method, credit professional JEL: G30, M41

JEL Classification: G30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Seppänen, Harri and Teinila, Timo, Surveys for Accounting Standard Setters: Evidence from East African vs. Nordic Credit Professionals (June 1, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4854692 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4854692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
99 References
A S Ahmed , M Neel , W Wang
Does mandatory adoption of IFRS improve Accounting Quality? Preliminary Evidence
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 1344 - 1372 Posted: 2013
K D Allee , D Erickson , A M Esplin , T L Yohn
The Characteristics, Valuation Methods, and Information Use of Valuation Specialists. Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming Posted: 2020-04-02
S C Anagnostopoulou
Accounting Quality and Loan Pricing: The Effect of Cross-country Differences in Legal Enforcement
The International Journal of Accounting , volume 52 , p. 178 - 200 Posted: 2017
R C Anderson , S A Mansi , D M Ree
Board characteristics, accounting report integrity, and the cost of debt
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 315 - 342 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
42
ABSTRACT VIEWS
376
99 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management & Analysis in Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies