Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Subject of Earned Value- Ref: PMWJ article by Dr. Ken Smith titled “ADDING VALUE TO EARNED VALUE: The PISA P (PI) Chart for Monitoring Project Implementation.”

PM World Journal, Vol. IX, Issue II – February 2020

3 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

Paul D Giammalvo, Ph.D.

Independent

Date Written: February 07, 2020

Abstract

As a follow-up to Dr. Ken Smith’s article in the December edition of the PM World Journal entitled “ADDING VALUE TO EARNED VALUE: The PISA P (PI) Chart for Monitoring Project Implementation,” https://pmworldjournal.com/article/adding-value-to-earned-value, as another of the “old-time” earned value subject matter experts, I wanted to elaborate and expand on what my esteemed friend and professional colleague published and show how those of us in the private sector, “hard money” (firm fixed price) construction market have been using this same weekly or monthly SPI and CPI information as the basis to validate these three quality metrics that apply to both our cost and time estimates:1) Accuracy- How close the actual time or costs are vs. what was estimated or budgeted.2) Reliability- How good are the numbers to use as the basis to forecast.3) Precision- How closely grouped are the readings to the baseline time/cost estimates.4) Validity- How consistently do the data values model the future or predicted resultsAs it seems there are fewer of us around who have actually used earned value on projects where our own money was on the line if the projects “succeed” or “fail,” it is important to try to convince PMI, AACE and other professional societies to follow the lead of the the outspoken critics of EVM and not only show how the US DoD and other government agencies use earned value but also how the private sector has been using earned value since it evolved from the factory floors of the 17th and 18th Century industrial revolution as an “incentive” or “pay for performance” scheme, as documented in Halbert Powers Gillette, Richard Turner Dana’s 1909 book “Cost Keeping and Management Engineering: A Treatise for Engineers, Contractors and Superintendents Engaged in the Management of Engineering Construction” https://books.google.co.id/books?redir_esc=y&id=zO-ADudj-R8C&focusWith PMI rewriting their PMBOK Guide 7th Edition, now is a good time for both PMI and AACE (and any other professional society advocating the use of earned value) to conduct the research necessary to accurately portray the evolution of Earned Value not only how the US and other governments use it, but more importantly, how the private sector uses it.

Suggested Citation:

Giammalvo, Paul D, On the Subject of Earned Value- Ref: PMWJ article by Dr. Ken Smith titled “ADDING VALUE TO EARNED VALUE: The PISA P (PI) Chart for Monitoring Project Implementation.” (February 07, 2020). PM World Journal, Vol. IX, Issue II – February 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4858653 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4858653
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Artificial Intelligence eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies