Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
esg2go: A Method to Reduce Bias, Improve Coherence, and Increase Practicality of ESG Rating and Reporting

20 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Philipp Aerni

University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland (HES-SO); University of Zurich - Center für Nachhaltigkeit und unternehmerische Verantwortung (CCRS)

Isa Cakir

Center on Corporate Responsibility

Manfred Max Bergman

Department of Social Research and Methodology, University of Basel

Date Written: December 15, 2023

Abstract

Rating agencies that assess a company's environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) impact have been subject to public and academic scrutiny due to divergent and often biased rating outcomes. Concurrently, an evolving regulatory environment mandates publicly listed companies to report on ESG and climate emissions, taking into account supply chain risks as well. As a result, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are increasingly asked as suppliers to present a credible sustainability certificate. The esg2go rating and reporting system aims at improving the credibility and practicality of corporate sustainability assessment. It was jointly developed with its users and relevant stakeholders and is based on a calibrated benchmarking system from verifiable data. The rating method enables the measurement and comparison of sector-and firm size-specific sustainability performance. Its underlying adaptive parametrization is derived from a coherent and pragmatic definition of SME sustainability as the 'ability to co-exist'. Our data analyses indicate that our scoring function is able to minimize bias and deliver a fair comparability between SMEs. We conclude that esg2go represents a pragmatic and innovative approach to enhance the fairness and accuracy of corporate sustainability assessment.

Keywords: corporate sustainability assessment, rating bias, ESG, SME, SDG, calibrated benchmarking, transparency, coexistence, footprint, handprint, model arbitrage

Suggested Citation:

Aerni, Philipp and Cakir, Isa and Bergman, Manfred Max, esg2go: A Method to Reduce Bias, Improve Coherence, and Increase Practicality of ESG Rating and Reporting (December 15, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4859346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4859346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
C Hiessl
Labour rights & their enforcement in global value chains
ERA Forum , volume 24 , p. 201 - 215 Posted: 2023
P Griffin , A M Jaffe
Challenges for a climate risk disclosure mandate
Nat. Energy , volume 7 , p. 2 - 4 Posted: 2022
D A Cifrino , W Mcdermott , L L Emery
The Rise of International ESG Disclosure Standards
Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance. Available online Posted: 2023-06-29
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive Posted: 2023-10-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
526
RANK
753,736
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies