Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
US International Corporate Taxation after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act

24 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2024

Kimberly A. Clausing

UCLA School of Law; Peterson Institute for International Economics

Date Written: June 09, 2024

Abstract

The root dilemma that informs the past, present, and future of US international taxation is the tension between two desiderata: protecting the corporate tax base from erosion and ensuring the competitiveness of US multinational firms in the world economy. This article begins by exploring that tension, discussing the evidence behind these competing policy goals. It then considers the international tax provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. TCJA enacted transformative changes in US corporate tax policy, but it did not resolve long held policy concerns. While research on TCJA is in early stages, evidence indicates that TCJA substantially reduced corporate tax revenues, that TCJA's international provisions (as a whole) raised less revenue than expected, that offshoring and profit shifting remain large policy concerns, that changes in US multinational company competitiveness were mixed, and that underlying trends in wages and investment did not change due to TCJA. While TCJA was unable to resolve the tension between competitiveness and tax base protection, the Pillar 2 international tax agreement shows more promise in that regard. As countries throughout the world implement a "country-by-country" minimum tax on multinational income of 15 percent, this has the potential to disrupt long-standing arguments about international corporate taxation.

Keywords: Corporate Taxation, International Taxation, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Income Shifting, Tax Avoidance, Profit Shifting, Tax Competition

Declaration of Interest

I have no conflicts of interest.

Funder Statement

No one funded this research beyond my standard academic appointment.

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H87, F23

Suggested Citation:

Clausing, Kimberly A., US International Corporate Taxation after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (June 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4859169 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4859169
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
67 References
James Albertus , Brent Glover , Oliver Levine
The Real and Financial Effects of Internal Liquidity: Evidence From the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Posted: 2023
Eric J Allen , Susan C Morse
Does Parenting Matter? US Parents, Non-US Parents, and Global Firm Taxes
Journal of Law, Finance, and Accounting , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 239 - 290 Posted: 2019
T J Atwood , Jimmy Downes , Jodi Henley , Mollie Matthis
The Impact of US Tax Reform on US Firm Acquisitions of Domestic and Foreign Targets Posted: 2020
Tom Bergin
Insight: Even after Biden Tax Hike, US Firms Would Pay Less than Foreign Rivals Posted: 2021-06-22
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
278
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,313
RANK
250,867
2 Citations
67 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies