Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Untraced and Unaccounted for Associate Company as a Result of Corporate Split-off - Case Study of Government of Malawi Investment in Open Connect Limited

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023

13 Pages Posted: 18 Jul 2024

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: March 01, 2023

Abstract

Robust government accounting system ensures that transactions do not slip through the net so that whatever has to be accounted for is done so diligently and without delay so that the government is truly accountable to its citizenry. This case study has however revealed that an investment in Open Connect Limited as a result of the corporate split off of Malawi Telecommunications Limited in which Government of Malawi owns 20 percent is conspicuously missing in the database of Public Enterprises and Government Investment Unit (PEGIU). While the Public Finance Management Act 2022 has new section dealing with matters where Government of Malawi is a minority shareholder, substantial damage might have already been caused as the conservative fair value of Open Connect Limited was MWK3.701 billion on 31st December 2016, this diminished to about MWK0.286 billion in 2021 which in part was due to issuance of dilutive additional shares where there is no evidence that Government of Malawi was consulted resulting in substantial reduction in shareholding percentage from 20 percent in 2016 to 2 percent in 2021. It is recommended that the Government of Malawi must divest the portfolio after negotiating for better exit price in view of lack of documentary evidence that it was consulted on the issuance of dilutive additional shares. It is also recommended that the government accounting system must be linked to the database of Registrar of Companies and Registrar of Business to avoid accidental omission of investment in the quest to comply with Section 105 of the Public Finance Management Act 2022 which deals with Government as the minority shareholder.

Keywords: Untraced, Associate, PEGIU, Open Connect

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Untraced and Unaccounted for Associate Company as a Result of Corporate Split-off - Case Study of Government of Malawi Investment in Open Connect Limited (March 01, 2023). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 4. No. 1 Mar 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4866828 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4866828
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Rebecca Bloch
Assessing the Impact of GASB Statement No. 34: The Perceptions of Municipal Bond Analysts
Municipal Finance Journal , volume 37 , issue 2 , p. 51 - 71 Posted: 2016
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Bridging the gap between IASB Conceptual Framework and IAS 1 on the users of financial statements
SSRN Corporate Governance and Accounting eJournal Posted: 2013
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Goodwill recognition in Malawian Banking Industry -Fair Value Based Approach
Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 47 - 78 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
26
ABSTRACT VIEWS
318
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies