Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Implications of Global Convergence on IFRS for U.S. Regulators, Standard Setters, Accounting Profession and Educators

AAA 2004 Mid-Atlantic Region Annual Meeting Paper

Posted: 6 Apr 2004

Sylwia Gornik-Tomaszewski

St. John's University - Department of Accounting and Taxation

Date Written: January 2004

Abstract

Recent progress towards a single set of high quality global accounting standards has been unprecedented. In 2002 the Parliament and Council of the European Union (EU) approved an accounting Regulation requiring listed companies to follow International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), adopted at the European level, in their consolidated financial statements. The Regulation applies to accounting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2005. Many countries in other parts of the world also have formal policies or other convergence plans in place. It is estimated that by 2005 IFRS will be required in at least 64 countries for all domestic listed companies and become the most widely accepted accounting model in the world.

This paper discusses these developments and their implications for the SEC, the FASB, and the accounting profession. On this background, questions are raised as to the adequacy of our academic programs. Suggestions for future research are also provided.

Keywords: Convergence, IFRS, Regulation 1606/2002, SEC, FASB

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M47, G38, A20

Suggested Citation:

Gornik-Tomaszewski, Sylwia, The Implications of Global Convergence on IFRS for U.S. Regulators, Standard Setters, Accounting Profession and Educators (January 2004). AAA 2004 Mid-Atlantic Region Annual Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=487084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.487084
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,881
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies