Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridge Financing as a Tool for Liquidity Management: Lessons for the Financial Markets

21 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2024

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: June 21, 2024

Abstract

Bridge financing, a practical and widely used tool, is a mainstay in the international capital markets. It is predominantly utilised by developed country issuers with foreign exchange needs. This form of financing offers short-term funding, often in tandem with securities issuance, necessitating a commitment to a project for a relatively extended period. This financing ensures the issuer has sufficient foreign exchange reserves to meet the redemption abroad on the issue's maturity and the securities' face value. Bridge financing can be structured with various forms of commitment from the financing parties, including well-known financial institutions in the international markets. There are financial mechanisms to cover both commercial and settlement risks. The issuer can bear the financing cost or achieve it through the issue at creation (if the issue and the bridge financing are contemporaneous) or structuring (if the bond proceeds are invested in foreign currency). The dual challenge of maintaining solvency and ensuring liquidity is a complex and pressing issue for banks. Traditional methods, including regulatory cash reserve requirements, asset-liability management (ALM), and consideration of explicit or contingent buy-forward of funds, are not foolproof. Even more sophisticated tools like scenario analysis, stress testing, insider trading restrictions, and prudential surveillance have proven insufficient in the face of financial crises. 

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Bridge Financing as a Tool for Liquidity Management: Lessons for the Financial Markets (June 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4872476 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4872476
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
559
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies