Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Non-Proportionality in Ratios: An Alternative Approach

24 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2024

Duarte Trigueiros

ISTAR-IUL, University Institute of Lisbon

Date Written: July 02, 1997

Abstract

This study identifies general postulates underlying the validity of the financial ratio measurement. Then, new relationships are suggested obeying the same postulates, which may replace the ratio form in the case of non-proportionality. Where proportionality holds, these relationships revert to the traditional ratio. The paper also reviews the reasons for expecting non-proportional components in ratios and presents application examples of the new relationships.

Keywords: Financial Analysis, Ratio Analysis, Financial Ratio Validity, Financial Ratio Proportionality C1

JEL Classification: C1, C2, C5, C21, G31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Trigueiros, Duarte, Non-Proportionality in Ratios: An Alternative Approach (July 02, 1997). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4878709 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4878709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
J Aitchison , J Brown
The Lognormal Distribution Posted: 1957
P Barnes
Methodological Implications of Non-Normally Distributed Financial Ratios
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 62 Posted: 1982
P Barnes
The Statistical Validity of the Ratio Method in Financial Analysis: An Empirical Examination: A Comment
Journal of Business Finance and Accounting , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 627 - 635 Posted: 1986
R Berry , S Nix
Regression Analysis vs. Ratios in the Cross-Sectional Analysis of Financial Statements
Accounting and Business Research , volume 21 , issue 82 , p. 107 - 117 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
66
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
RANK
799,009
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies