Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Real World Application of Investment Theory

12 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2008

John D. Rossi

Moravian College

Abstract

Making the assumptions used within a financial plan explicit is very important to the CPA planners' and the clients' understanding of the mechanisms of the plan. No one doubts - and professional standards require, that economic and personal assumptions be stated explicitly in a financial plan. However, in the plan there are many suppositions that do not constitute personal or economic assumptions, which should be made explicit, at least in the CPA planner's mind. Many of these suppositions or assumptions are related to investment theory. It is the goal of this paper to provide a real world application to theory, isolate the importance of investment assumptions and theories and to organize them into a cohesive model that lets a planner evaluates their benefits in a manner that is beneficial to the planning process.

I will review a number of investment decisions that may result in a CPA planner and client's agreement on investment strategies. None of these decisions should be new to the planner. However it is my intention contribution to the academic literature to create an organized environment within which the planner can make these assumptions regarding a real world application of investment theory.

Keywords: Investment Portfolio Theory

Suggested Citation:

Rossi, John D., A Real World Application of Investment Theory. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=489822 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.489822
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
Zvi Bodie
Crossref
Alex Kane , Alan Marcus
Essentials of Investments
Lawrence J Gitman , Michael Joehnk
Fundamentals of Investing
Addison Wesley
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
179
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,675
RANK
385,002
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies