Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Practice of Programme-based Budgeting: a Case Study of a Mosque in Surabaya


 

15 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2024

Hari Santoso Wibowo

STIDKI Ar Rahmah Surabaya; Airlangga University

Date Written: March 14, 2024

Abstract

This research article discusses the budget planning process of a mosque in Surabaya. The research method uses a qualitative method with a case study approach. Data was collected through interviews with mosque administrators, namely the director, treasurer, and heads of department. The results showed that the mosque uses a bottom-up method based on programming (program-based budgeting) in budget planning. The budget planning process includes the preparation and ratification stages of the budget by considering aspects of revenue and expense forecasting and budget approval. This research implies that it can be a lesson, especially for mosques or other nonprofit organizations applying budget planning.

Keywords: budget planning, budgeting process, mosque, nonprofit

JEL Classification: L31

Suggested Citation:

Wibowo, Hari Santoso, The Practice of Programme-based Budgeting: a Case Study of a Mosque in Surabaya (March 14, 2024).
 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M A M Adil , Z Mohd-Sanusi , N A Jaafar , M M Khalid , A A Aziz
Financial management practices of mosques in Malaysia
Global Journal Al-Thaqafah , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 30 Posted: 2013
M Y Alhasnawi , R M Said , Z M Daud , H Muhammad
Enhancing managerial performance through budget participation: Insights from a two-stage A PLS-SEM and artificial neural network approach (ANN)
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 9 , issue 4 Posted: 2023
M M Ali , M I Babar , M Hamza , M Jehanzeb , S Habib , M S Khan
Industrial financial forecasting using long short-term memory recurrent neural networks
International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 88 - 99 Posted: 2019
A Alsaawi
A critical review of qualitative interviews
European Journal of Business and Social Sciences , volume 3 , issue 4 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
313
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies