Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To Roth or Not to Roth? When Making After-Tax Contributions to a 401(k) Makes Sense

Posted: 24 Jul 2024 Last revised: 31 Dec 2024

Julia Camp

Providence College

Stephen Kuselias

Providence College

Sydnee Manley

Providence College

Date Written: May 01, 2024

Abstract

Popular media regularly exhorts readers and investors to strongly consider after-tax contributions to retirement accounts (Roth 401(k)). Although the advice is sometimes caveated, the implication is that sophisticated investors use Roth accounts. However, this appears to shortchange the extraordinary value of delaying a tax payment for decades when making pre-tax contributions via traditional retirement accounts. In this paper, we look at the present value of tax payments associated with two retirees who save exactly the same over time but choose different retirement vehicles (Roth 401(k) vs. Traditional 401(k)). Assuming no major shifts in tax policy, we find that for the majority of taxpayers, Traditional retirement contributions ultimately save taxpayers a substantial amount of money on their total tax payments across their lifetime. Our results should strongly caution major media outlets and financial advisors recommending Roth retirement accounts for a broad swath of taxpayers. Unless there are significantly unfavorable changes to the tax code in the future, it is likely that only a minority of taxpayers will benefit from lower taxes when saving only through a Roth.

Keywords: Roth Retirement, Traditional Retirement, 401(k), Present Value Analysis

Ethics Approval

No data was obtained from participants.

Suggested Citation:

Camp, Julia and Kuselias, Stephen and Manley, Sydnee, To Roth or Not to Roth? When Making After-Tax Contributions to a 401(k) Makes Sense (May 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4899531 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4899531
 Not Available for Download
22 References
S W Adelman , M L Cross
Comparing a traditional IRA and Roth IRA: Theory versus practice
Risk Management and Insurance Review , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 265 - 277 Posted: 2010
S L Butterfield , F A Jacobs , E R Larkins
The Roth versus the traditional IRA: A comparative analysis
Journal of Applied Business Research , volume 16 , issue 4 , p. 113 - 128 Posted: 2000
R Cellucci
When Is the Roth Conversion Optimal
Journal of Financial Service Professionals , volume 8 , p. 94 - 100 Posted: 2014
R J Clayton , L W Davis , W Fielding
Converting a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA: Breakeven analysis
Journal of Personal Finance , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 10 - 35 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies