Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Law Analysis Applied to Section 1031 Exchanges & Proximate Business Transactions

Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 776

35 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Bradley T. Borden

Brooklyn Law School

Date Written: July 11, 2024

Abstract

The popularity of nonrecognition of gain under section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code attracts advisors from several corners of the real estate industry, including real estate attorneys; real estate professionals, such as brokers; section 1031 qualified intermediaries; and tax advisors. The varying degrees of professional training often results in advice varying from one advisor to the next. Nowhere is this more apparent than with respect to so-called “drop-and-swap” and “swap-and-drop” transactions. Some advisors claim that property owners must hold property for a specific period of time before or after an exchange to qualify for section 1031 nonrecognition. Others advise property owners to hold property for some period of time as a precaution to help buoy up the support for claiming section 1031 nonrecognition.

This Article presents an overview of tax law analysis and the authority that governs section 1031 exchanges that occur in proximity to business transactions, i.e., drop-and-swaps and swap-and-drops. The Article shows that very strong authority supports section 1031 nonrecognition even if an exchanger receives exchange property in a tax-free distribution from an entity immediately before an exchange or transfers replacement property as a tax-free contribution to an entity immediately following an exchange. The same cannot be said for advice to hold property for a specific period of time before or after an exchange. In fact, such advice could expose exchangers to other tax and non-tax risks and could expose advisors to advisory risk. Given the popularity of drop-and-swaps and swap-and-drops, it is important that advisors look to the law when providing advice and that they apply tax-law analysis when considering authorities governing this area of the law. This Article provides the foundation for applying tax-law analysis and demonstrates its application to common exchanges that occur in proximity to business transactions.

Suggested Citation:

Borden, Bradley T., Tax-Law Analysis Applied to Section 1031 Exchanges & Proximate Business Transactions (July 11, 2024). Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 776, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4901357 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4901357
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
All section references are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, unless stated otherwise
I R C
See Bradley , T Borden , L B Paul , David Mckenney , ; Shechtman , T Bradley , Borden
Like-Kind Exchanges and Qualified Intermediaries, TAX NOTES
Section 1031 QIs in the New Economy, 27 J. TAX'N INV , volume 55 Posted: 2009-07-06
See Bradley , T Borden
Tax-Law Analysis, 18 BROOK
J. CORP. FIN. & COM. L Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
572
RANK
741,983
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Brooklyn Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies