Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identitet i nove uloge upravljačkih računovođa u eri digitalizacije (Identity and New Roles of Management Accountants in the Era of Digitalization)

Posted: 3 Sep 2024

Mirjana Todorovic

University of Kragujevac - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

Serbian Abstract: Cilj rada je analiza odnosa između informacionih tehnologija (IT) i upravljačkih računovođa (kontrolera), kroz prizmu uloga i identiteta, kao i identifikovanje pravaca razvoja profesije upravljačkih računovođa u uslovima sve intenzivnije digitalizacije. Pored teorijskih razmatranja koncepata uloge i identitet, efekata IT na upravljačko računovodstvo i identifikovanja trendova razvoja ove profesije, u radu su predstavljeni rezultati empirijskog istraživanja. IT transformišu posao upravljačkih računovođa, dovode do erozije njihovog identiteta, kreiraju disbalans između profesionalnog ideala i organizaicone realnosti, dovode do sukoba identiteta i gepa u očekivanjima. To su ozbiljni problemi sa brojnim, potencijalno negativnim posledicama. Zato su u ovoj oblasti neophodni nova istraživanja i traganje za potencijalnim rešenjima. Usled primene IT, upravljačke računovođe stiču nove uloge, postojeće uloge se tranformišu, a zadaci se šire, produbljuju i usložnjavanju. Rezultati sprovedenog istraživanja su važni signali obrazovnim institucijama o budućim pravcima razvoja obrazovnih programa u oblasti računovodstva.
English Abstract: The paper aims to analyze the relationship between information technology (IT) and management accountants (controllers), through the prism of roles and identities, as well as to identify the directions of development of the management accountant profession in conditions of increasingly intensive digitization. In addition to the theoretical consideration of the role and identity concepts, the effects of IT on management accounting, and identifying trends in the development of this profession, the paper presents the results of empirical research. IT transforms the work of management accountants, leads to the erosion of their identity, creates an imbalance between the professional ideal and organizational reality, and leads to identity conflicts and gaps in expectations. These are serious problems with numerous, potentially negative consequences. That is why new research and the search for potential solutions are necessary in this area. Due to the application of IT, management accountants acquire new roles, existing roles are transformed, and the tasks are expanded, deepened and complicated. The results of the research are important signals to educational institutions about the future directions of the development of educational programs in the field of accounting.

Note: Downloadable document is in Serbian.

Keywords: upravljačke računovođe (kontroleri), nove uloge, identitet, informacione tehnologije, digitalizacija

JEL Classification: M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Todorovic, Mirjana, Identitet i nove uloge upravljačkih računovođa u eri digitalizacije (Identity and New Roles of Management Accountants in the Era of Digitalization) (June 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4908308
 Not Available for Download
25 References
A Abbott
The system of professions: An essay on the division of expert labor Posted: 1988
V Ala-Heikkilä , M Järvenpää
Management accountants' image, role and identity: employer branding and identity conflict
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 337 - 371 Posted: 2023
R Andreassen
Digital technology and changing roles: a management accountant's dream or nightmare
Journal of Management Control , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 209 - 238 Posted: 2020
B Biddle
Recent developments in role theory
Annual Review of Sociology , volume 12 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
153
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies