Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Functional Data Valuation Paradigm for Enterprises -Case Studies from the Manufacturing Sector

19 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2024

Sai Krishnan Mohan

ESC Rennes School of Business

Gnana Bharathy

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Akanksha Jalan

ESC Rennes School of Business

Date Written: July 01, 2024

Abstract

The topic of data valuation in enterprises has been increasing in importance over the last decade. While multiple data valuation methods have proposed, there is a lack of enterprise case studies and functional data valuation paradigms for enterprises. This article proposes a functional data valuation paradigm for enterprises, illustrated through two case studies on digital marketing efforts for lead conversion for sales and after-sales service functions respectively. The economic value of data is derived based on it's usage in different functions by employing various data valuation methods such as income-based, cost-based, intrinsic value, and application-based value in enterprise business processes. The implications of this research suggest a method to align the valuation of data and information artifacts with economic value on enterprise balance sheets for management reporting and analysis. This can enable businesses to reveal more of their economic potential and drive actions in an increasingly digitalized world.

Suggested Citation:

Mohan, Sai Krishnan and Bharathy, Gnana and Jalan, Akanksha, Functional Data Valuation Paradigm for Enterprises -Case Studies from the Manufacturing Sector (July 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4915651 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4915651
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
R L Ackoff
From Data to Wisdom
J. Appl. Syst. Anal Posted: 1989
N Ahituv
ASSESSING THE VALUE OF INFORMATION: PROBLEMS AND APPROACHES Posted: 1989
N Ahituv
A Systematic Approach toward Assessing the Value of an Information System
MIS Posted: 1980
W Anson , W Noble , D Samala , J
Valuation and Sale of Intangible Assets, Intellectual Property and IP Licenses in Bankruptcy
Licens. J. Anson Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Sai Krishnan Mohan , Gnana Bharathy , Akanksha Jalan
Enterprise Data Valuation—A Targeted Literature Review
Journal of Economic Surveys Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
550
RANK
747,753
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies