Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A New Worker Category under the Personal Service Income Regime in Australia

19 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Christina Allen

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

In the past, Australia's tax laws responded to the ever-changing legal environment within which businesses operate, while employing antiavoidance provisions. Introduced in 2000, the tax regime known as "personal service income", which treats certain contractors and business owners/ managers as employees, diverged from this approach. This article explores the factors driving the formulation of the regime and whether the pre-existing anti-avoidance provisions were ineffective. It finds that the regime was motivated by counterbalancing the fiscal impact of the proposed corporate tax rate reduction and consequently brought about a new category of workers who have all legal rights and obligations outside the existing tax laws as independent contractors but are treated as employees for tax purposes. These workers are akin to dependent contractors-which has no legal or commercial meaning in Australia. These findings indicate a potential opening for a new method of legislating tax laws.

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Christina, A New Worker Category under the Personal Service Income Regime in Australia (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929976 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929976
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
International Labour Organisation Endorses Independent Contractors
The 'Dependent Contractor' Argument: Background and Why It Is Discredited Posted: 2006-06-18
Senate Select Committee on the Future of Work and Workers, Parliament of Australia, Hope Is Not a Strategy -Our Shared Responsibility for the Future of Work and Workers (2018) viii
FCR , volume 167 Posted: 2008
FCA , volume 528
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
379
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies