Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blockchain to the Rescue: Improving Taxpayer Engagement with Blockchain

10 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Christina Allen

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Vidyasagar Potdar

Curtin University

Date Written: January 01, 2022

Abstract

Although tax authorities are increasingly moving to digitalisation, there has been limited use of blockchain for assisting tax administration and compliance. This article discusses the potential use of blockchain technology for this purpose. In particular, the Australian tax system is considered in light of the challenges identified in the recent official report published by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Tax and Revenue. These challenges result from the rising gig economy, complex work-related deduction rules for individual taxpayers and, more generally, tax evasion in the cash economy. To overcome these challenges, this article proposes a blockchain solution that increases taxpayer engagement with the tax and superannuation system. Not only would this solution benefit the Australian Government's ability to raise revenue and induce a good compliance culture, but a similar solution could be adopted in other jurisdictions.

Keywords: Blockchain R&D Lab, Faculty Business and Law, Curtin University

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Christina and Potdar, Vidyasagar, Blockchain to the Rescue: Improving Taxpayer Engagement with Blockchain (January 01, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4929990 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4929990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
452
RANK
713,739
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies