Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ambiguous Doctrines and Legislative Responses to Current/Capital Expenditure

16 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2024

Christina Allen

Curtin University - Curtin Law School

Date Written: January 01, 2021

Abstract

Australian courts have struggled with distinguishing current expenses from capital expenses for the purpose of applying the principal deduction provision in the federal income tax legislation. In the late-1990s, the Review of Business Taxation proposed an overhaul of the tax laws based on the "tax value method" (TVM) to establish clear, objective criteria for characterising expenses. The proposed reforms were not adopted, and to date the tax system still lacks an effective way to deal with expenses relating to intangible wasting assets and benefits. However, aspects of the TVM could be incorporated into the current legislation. This article proposes two ways to do so: first, by adding an objective characterisation test to the legislation; and second, by allowing immediate tax deductions for expenses that fall outside the definition of capital expenses but produce valuable benefits. Implementing these reforms will make the tax system more internally consistent.

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Christina, Ambiguous Doctrines and Legislative Responses to Current/Capital Expenditure (January 01, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4930003 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4930003
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
405
RANK
906,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies