Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Artificial Intelligence Application and Research in Accounting, Finance, Economics, Business, and Management

19 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2024

Peterson K Ozili

Central Bank of Nigeria

Date Written: June 06, 2024

Abstract

Artificial intelligence is a branch of computer science that develop intelligent machines to perform human tasks. Recently, there is growing interest in AI applications in professions that have many processes that can be easily automated. There is widespread optimism that AI systems can lead to new innovations or improve existing processes. This study focuses on some applications of artificial intelligence in the accounting, finance, economics, business, and management profession. The study provides a basic understanding of how AI will be useful in the accounting, finance, economics, business and management professions. The study also offered some insights into the risks posed by the use of artificial intelligence.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, AI, machine learning, accounting, finance, economics, business, management

Suggested Citation:

Ozili, Peterson K, Artificial Intelligence Application and Research in Accounting, Finance, Economics, Business, and Management (June 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4934577 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4934577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,411
RANK
213,115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies