Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How are Derivative Accounting Applied for Hedging Activities?

International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, 
Vol. 3, No. 4, October 2013, pp. 72–90

https://hrmars.com/papers_submitted/309/how-are-derivative-accounting-applied-for-hedging-activities.pdf

19 Pages Posted: 26 Sep 2024 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Doan Van Dinh

Industrial University of Ho Chi Minh City

Guangming Gong

Hunan University - Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 15, 2013

Abstract

The derivative instruments accounting plays an important role in the development of the financial instruments markets, commodity market and in the risk management process. Because, the close relationship between the methods of derivative instruments accounting and the derivative instruments in the financial markets, commodity market for hedging activities. Moreover, they bring the relevance and reliability of Financial statements. Application of derivative instruments accounting is an essential factor for the development of financial market and economy. Currently, Vietnamese accounting is using historical cost methods for the financial assets; the fair value is not applied by the enterprises. How is difference between the historical method and fair value accounting? If the enterprises apply derivative instruments accounting, how will they have benefits? The article analyses and emphasizes usage of the derivative instruments accounting method and fair value of evaluating models to find out benefits to help managers and investors manage the risk.

Keywords: Fair value, forward contracts, futures contracts, derivative accounting, financial statements, hedging activities

Suggested Citation:

Van Dinh, Doan and Gong, Guangming, How are Derivative Accounting Applied for Hedging Activities? (October 15, 2013).
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting, Finance and Management Sciences, 
Vol. 3, No. 4, October 2013, pp. 72–90
, https://hrmars.com/papers_submitted/309/how-are-derivative-accounting-applied-for-hedging-activities.pdf, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4939120 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4939120
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Derivatives eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies