Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CPA Licensing and Economic Inequality in the Accounting Labor Market

41 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2024 Last revised: 30 Dec 2024

Ruiting(Dan) Dai

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Curtis M. Hall

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Amanda Marino

San Diego State University - Fowler College of Business

Eric T. Rapley

Colorado State University, Fort Collins - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 15, 2024

Abstract

The additional education required by the 150-hour rule for CPA licensure has disproportionately affected Black representation in public accounting. An implication is that Black workers could be choosing non-public accounting jobs or avoiding the accounting profession. Using U.S. census data, we investigate Black representation within the accounting industry. We find lower (higher) Black representation in overall accounting (other accounting-related) positions after state-level adoption of a 150-hour licensing requirement. Regarding income consequences, we find that Black workers entering the accounting profession are less likely to be in high-paying jobs in terms of entry-level pay, wage growth, and career compensation after the 150-hour rule. Further analysis shows that Black workers receive relatively less compensation for accounting related positions, which is the job field experiencing relative growth in Black workers. Overall, our findings support the view that public accounting’s increased occupational licensing requirements have negatively affected Black accountants, with potential consequences for economic inequality.

Keywords: CPA Licensure, Diversity and Inclusion, Higher Education, Minority Representation, Occupational Licensing, Public Accountants, the 150-hour Rule

Suggested Citation:

Dai, Ruiting and Hall, Curtis M. and Marino, Amanda and Rapley, Eric T., CPA Licensing and Economic Inequality in the Accounting Labor Market (August 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4945831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4945831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
A Aladangady , A Forde
Wealth inequality and the racial wealth gap. FEDS Notes. Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Posted: 2021-10-22
A Allen , A Woodland
Education requirements, audit fees, and audit quality
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 29 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2010
The Measure of Excellence
Annual Report Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
RANK
344,239
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies