Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control Mechanisms for Predicting the Likelihood of Revenue Management by County Governments of the Lake Region Economic Block (LREB) in Kenya

11 Pages Posted: 9 Oct 2024

Dennis Bulla

Masinde Muliro University of Science & Technology

Benedict Alala

Masinde Muliro University of Science & Technology, Students

Reuben Ruto

Masinde Muliro University of Science & Technology, Students

Robert Egessa

Masinde Muliro University of Science & Technology, Students

Date Written: September 05, 2024

Abstract

This research paper examines the impact of internal control mechanisms on effective revenue management by county governments in Kenya's Lake Region Economic Block (LREB). Based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework, five internal control components are analyzed: control environment, control activities, risk assessment, information and communication, and monitoring. Through empirical analysis, this study reveals that while all five components positively correlate with effective revenue management, monitoring activities have the strongest predictive power. The paper also highlights both consistencies and inconsistencies in internal control practices across different counties. The results provide actionable recommendations for strengthening internal controls and improving revenue performance in devolved government units.

Funder Statement

University Research Fund. Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology

Suggested Citation:

Bulla, Dennis and Alala, Benedict and Ruto, Reuben and Egessa, Robert, Internal Control Mechanisms for Predicting the Likelihood of Revenue Management by County Governments of the Lake Region Economic Block (LREB) in Kenya (September 05, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4947918 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4947918
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
I Abiola , O T Oyewole
Internal control system on fraud detection: Nigeria experience
Journal of Accounting and Finance , volume 13 , issue 5 , p. 137 - 148 Posted: 2013
A Amudo , E L Inanga
Evaluation of internal control systems: A case study from Uganda
International Research Journal of Finance and Economics , volume 27 , p. 124 - 144 Posted: 2009
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) Posted: 1992
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
Internal Control-Integrated Framework Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
294
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies