Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investment Valuation of Public High Growth Companies in the Context of Global Economic Uncertainty

4 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2024

Yulia Lukina

MGIMO University

Date Written: February 21, 2024

Abstract

High-growth companies (gazelles) are those that demonstrate faster rates of revenue growth over several subsequent periods compared to other organizations. High-growth firms have social and economic significance, which arouses interest in this group among a wide range of market participants: counterparties, competitors, analysts, scientists, government officials and potential investors. Investors are interested in creating a growth stock portfolio in conditions of global economic uncertainty which will improve the financial well-being of the security holder. Assessment of investment attractiveness plays an important role at the stage of selection of investment targets; assessment mechanisms make it possible to reduce the risks of ineffective investment and identify the most profitable financial investments. The purpose of the study is to determine the most effective valuation methods in the context of high-growth companies and to integrate the specific features of gazelles as an economic group into a financial model. The study included an analysis of the revenue dynamics of high-growth Russian companies, using a systematic approach, as well as comparative and investment analysis methods. The author built a model for assessing the investment attractiveness of a high-growth company using the discounted cash flow method. There is terminological ambiguity in the concept of gazelles; in various studies, the criteria for recognizing companies as high-growth may differ depending on country characteristics and the research question. The article presents the author's definition of high-growth companies and formulates the key features of gazelles as an economic group, which were subsequently integrated into the financial model. Discounted cash flow valuation has been found to be most effective in the context of high-growth companies. The author developed a predictive coefficient for the dynamics of revenue of high-growth companies, which was integrated into the model to obtain more conservative assessment results. The author drew conclusions about the advantages and disadvantages of using a predictive coefficient for revenue dynamics. The main advantages include more conservative assessment results, which will reduce investment risks, and integration into the model historical and sectoral characteristics of revenue dynamics. The main disadvantages include the complexity of calculations and the necessity of having a statistical base for several subsequent periods.

Keywords: accounting and analytical support, investment valuation, investment attractiveness, high growth companies

JEL Classification: C52, G11, M41

Suggested Citation:

Lukina, Yulia, Investment Valuation of Public High Growth Companies in the Context of Global Economic Uncertainty (February 21, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4950223 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4950223
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
488
RANK
719,188
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies