Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges and Difficulties for Micro-Businesses in Adapting IFRS for SMES Requirements: Kosovo Evidence

Journal of Liberty and International Affairs, Institute for Research and European Studies - Bitola, volume 7, issue 3, 2021[10.47305/JLIA2137085d]

17 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2024

Esat Durguti

University Isa Boletini Mitrovica

Erëza A. Arifi

Kolegji Globus

Date Written: September 21, 2021

Abstract

Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have a vital position in the international economy. The study aims to examine the compulsory financial reporting requirements set by the Kosovo Council for Financial Reporting (KCFR) as well as SMEs requirements for reviewing the current classification in the Kosovo context. This study, like most relevant studies, employs ordinal probit regression to examine the relationships among the requirements defined as dependent variables and other control variables such as necessary reclassification review under KCFR, preferred reclassification review under KCFR, experience knowledge of accountants and auditors, continuously education concerning financial reporting, and assessments of business owners. According to the reported conclusions, the application of these requirements in the Kosovo context does not create any opportunities for SMEs. On the contrary, the findings point to a thorough review of the reporting requirements for microbusinesses, as the current classification appears to be a burden for these businesses.

Keywords: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises, Kosovo, International Financial Reporting Standards

Suggested Citation:

Durguti, Esat and Arifi, Erëza A., Challenges and Difficulties for Micro-Businesses in Adapting IFRS for SMES Requirements: Kosovo Evidence (September 21, 2021). Journal of Liberty and International Affairs, Institute for Research and European Studies - Bitola, volume 7, issue 3, 2021[10.47305/JLIA2137085d], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4961710 or http://dx.doi.org/10.47305/JLIA2137085d
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Ali Uyar , Ali Haydar , Güngörmüş
Perceptions and knowledge of accounting professionals on IFRS for SMEs: Evidence from Turkey
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 77 - 87 Posted: 2013
Ana Bonito , Cláudio Pais
The macroeconomic determinants of the adoption of IFRS for SMEs
Revista de Contabilidad , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 116 - 127 Posted: 2018
Ana Paula Silva , Alexandra Fontes , Adelaide Martins
Perceptions regarding the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards in Portugal and Brazil
Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation , issue 44 Posted: 2021
Anna-Maija Lantto
Business Involvement in Accounting: A Case Study of International Financial Reporting Standards Adoption and the Work of Accountants
European Accounting Review , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 335 - 356 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
63
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
RANK
826,938
2 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies