Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partners and Loan Loss Provisioning: Evidence from U.S. Bank Holding Companies

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 24-13

61 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2024 Last revised: 21 Jun 2025

Gauri Bhat

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Hemang Desai

Southern Methodist University (SMU) - Accounting Department

Christoffer Koch

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Erik J. Mayer

University of Wisconsin-Madison, Finance Department

Nitzan Tzur-Ilan

Federal Reserve Banks - Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas

Date Written: January 19, 2023

Abstract

Using confidential data on audit partner identities, this study explores the impact of individual audit partners on loan loss provisioning in U.S. bank holding companies (BHCs) from 2006 to 2019. The banking industry provides a unique setting where the objectives of auditors and regulators concerning provisioning often diverge. Regulators favor prudence and are concerned with underestimation. Auditors evaluate the adequacy of provision but tend to prioritize verifiability under GAAP. Thus, the banking industry provides a natural laboratory for studying auditor judgment and the impact of individual audit partners on loan loss provisioning. Unlike prior studies that document the impact of audit partner style on various client-firm outcomes, we find only modest evidence of audit partner heterogeneity on loan loss provisions for public BHCs and those audited by large firms, but not when we limit the sample period to the post-financial crisis years. These findings highlight a nuanced story: while audit partner heterogeneity can affect provisioning, especially during periods of economic uncertainty, the heterogeneity appears to be constrained in more stable periods. We also find that loan loss allowances increase over the duration of the partner tenure, especially in public and small BHCs. For small BHCs, this pattern persists even after the crisis, implying that longer auditor relationships may lead to more conservative provisioning, potentially due to developing client-specific knowledge.

Keywords: auditing, banking, audit partner names, PCAOB, audit partner tenure, auditor rotation

JEL Classification: G21, J01, J44, L84, M21, M42

Suggested Citation:

Bhat, Gauri and Desai, Hemang and Koch, Christoffer and Mayer, Erik J. and Tzur-Ilan, Nitzan, Audit Partners and Loan Loss Provisioning: Evidence from U.S. Bank Holding Companies (January 19, 2023). SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper No. 24-13, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4973439 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4973439
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
J M Abowd , F Kramarz , D N Margolis
High Wage Workers and High Wage Firms
Econometrica , volume 67 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 333 Posted: 1999
R B Adams , H Almeida , D Ferreira
Powerful CEOs and Their Impact on Corporate Performance
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 18 , issue 4 , p. 1403 - 1432 Posted: 2005
A S Ahmed , C Takeda , S Thomas
Bank loan loss provisions: a reexamination of capital management, earnings management and signaling effects
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 1999
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities (Cohen Commission)
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities -Report, Conclusions, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
584
RANK
682,707
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

SMU Cox School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies