Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Digitalization of accounting within the concept of cost management

9 Pages Posted: 22 Nov 2024

Elena Liliana Coman

University of Valahia Targoviste

Date Written: September 10, 2024

Abstract

Digital technologies have penetrated managerial accounting and have immense potential to transform this profession. Implementation of emerging digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, the Internet of Things, big data and cloud computing, can trigger a crucial leap forward, which can lead to a paradigm shift in the accounting management of transport organizations. The main objective of the research is to investigate the perception of Romanian accountants regarding the implementation of digital technologies in the accounting management of transport organizations. In this study we identified the influence of cost accounting tools improved through digital transformation on the performance of transport organizations, from which we inferred that it is much more robust in the case of innovative tools than in traditional cost calculation tools. The proposed model provides managers within transport organizations with information on the most effective methods in the context of digital transformation.

Keywords: digital transformation, accounting, management, cost accounting tools, innovation

Suggested Citation:

Coman, Elena Liliana, Digitalization of accounting within the concept of cost management (September 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4979637 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4979637
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
M Arnaboldi , G Azzone , Y Sidorova
Governing social media: the emergence of hybridised boundary objects
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 821 - 849 Posted: 2017
H Cao , Z Zhu
Research on future accounting information system în the internet of things era
IEEE International Conference on Computer Science and Automation Engineering Posted: 2012
Esperanza Huerta , Scott Jensen
An Accounting Information Systems Perspective on Data Analytics and Big Data
Journal of information systems , volume 31 , p. 101 - 114 Posted: 2017
C B Frey , M A Osborne
The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation?Technological Forecasting and Social ChangeVolume 114 Posted: 2017-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
177
ABSTRACT VIEWS
887
RANK
388,855
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies