Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Blockchain and Smart Contracts to Combat Greenwashing in Environmental Disclosures

28 Pages Posted: 25 Nov 2024

Yu Gu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Lanxin Jiang

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Jun Dai

Michigan Technological University

Date Written: March 03, 2024

Abstract

This study examines widespread greenwashing practices in corporate environmental disclosures and the potential of blockchain and smart contracts to address this problem. We define six types of greenwashing risk indicators in environmental disclosures relevant to accounting practice: misconduct, selective disclosure, misclassification, hollow promise, in name only, and misleading presentation. Then, we propose a comprehensive framework that uses blockchain and smart contracts to combat greenwashed disclosures by creating automated controls and providing tamper-resistant audit evidence. Based on this framework, we design and implement smart contracts on blockchain to combat greenwashing practices in Shell plc’s environmental disclosures. This study provides automatic, real-time, and secured greenwashing risk controls with early warnings for auditors and regulators. It introduces new audit tasks like using blockchain information to verify environmental disclosures, creates novel opportunities for environmental experts to set rules for greenwashing, and provides insights on greenwashing risk detection, market monitoring, and policy revision for regulators.

Keywords: greenwashing, ESG, blockchain, smart contract, environmental

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Gu, Yu and Jiang, Lanxin and Dai, Jun, Using Blockchain and Smart Contracts to Combat Greenwashing in Environmental Disclosures (March 03, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4982537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4982537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A Abdullah , S Yamak , A Korzhenitskaya , R Rahimi , J Mcclellan
Sustainable development: The role of sustainability committees in achieving ESG targets
Business Strategy and the Environment Posted: 2023
Al Sadawi , A , B Madani , S Saboor , M Ndiaye , G Abu-Lebdeh
A comprehensive hierarchical blockchain system for carbon emission trading utilizing blockchain of things and smart contract
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , volume 173 Posted: 2021
M G Alles , J Dai , M A Vasarhelyi
Reporting 4.0: Business reporting for the age of mass customization
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 18 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2021
S Asharaf , S Adarsh
Decentralized computing using blockchain technologies and smart contracts: Emerging research and opportunities Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
309
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,247
RANK
224,403
2 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies