Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of Outlier Detection Methods in Audit Analytics

33 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2024

Kevin Fulcer

Baker Tilly US LLP

Hanchi Gu

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Hanxin Hu

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Qing Huang

Marshall University - Lewis College of Business; Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Alexander Kogan

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Danyang Wei

Durham University Business School

Jimmy Young

American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)

Date Written: August 16, 2024

Abstract

Audit transaction anomalies can be viewed as outliers. Unsupervised learning methods of outlier detection do not require outcome labels and enable auditors to discover possible problems based  on observed transaction patterns. This study develops a framework for using outlier detection methods in audit selection and evaluates the proposed framework on real-world revenue sub-ledger datasets. The results indicate that the proposed framework could facilitate the identification of relevant outlier detection algorithms and effectively select risky observations.

Keywords: Audit Analytics, Outlier Detection, Unsupervised Learning, Credible Algorithms

JEL Classification: M42, M40, C45

Suggested Citation:

Fulcer, Kevin and Gu, Hanchi and Hu, Hanxin and Huang, Qing and Kogan, Alexander and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A. and Wei, Danyang and Young, Jimmy, Application of Outlier Detection Methods in Audit Analytics (August 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4983971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4983971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
E Alpaydin
Introduction to machine learning Posted: 2020
Y Bao , B Ke , B Li , Y J Yu , J Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded US firms using a machine learning approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
M M Breunig , H P Kriegel , R T Ng , J Sander
LOF: identifying density-based local outliers
Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data , p. 93 - 104 Posted: 2000
N Craswell
Precision at N. Encyclopedia of Database Systems: 2127-2128 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
168
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
407,466
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies