Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Working Capital Management on the Profitability of Indian Firms

TIJER || April 2024, Volume 11, Issue 4

3 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Diksha Sharma

Panjab University - Faculty of Business Mangement & Commerce

Vaibhav Tripathi

Panjab University Chandigarh

Date Written: April 01, 2024

Abstract

Working capital management is a crucial area for focus for any organisation since it has an impact on the capacity of the company to maintain liquidity, manage its operations, and grow sustainably. The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of working capital management on corporate profitability using a sample of National Stock Exchange (NSE) listed companies. of India in 2023. Linear regression has been used to analyse the relationship between the working capital position and profitability position of companies. The results revealed that working capital management has a non-significant impact on a company's profitability. These findings suggest that enhancing working capital management could not immediately result in higher profitability. The study adds to the knowledge domain of researchers and academicians. Further, it has implications for the managers as well as it suggests that while working capital management is essential for sustaining liquidity, it might not immediately boost profits.

Keywords: Working Capital, Profitability, Cash Conversion Cycle, Indian Firms, Regression Analysis I. INTRODUCTION

Suggested Citation:

Sharma, Diksha and Tripathi, Vaibhav, Impact of Working Capital Management on the Profitability of Indian Firms (April 01, 2024). TIJER || April 2024, Volume 11, Issue 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990626 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4990626
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
G A Afrifa , K Padachi
Working capital level influence on SME profitability
Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 63 Posted: 2016
S U Ahmed , N Mahtab , N Islam , M Abdullah
Impact of Working Capital Management on Profitability: A Study on Textile Companies of Bangladesh
Journal of Business & Financial Affairs , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 1 - 7 Posted: 2017
S Ajao , C Nkechinyere
Effective working capital management and profitability: A Study of Selected Quoted Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria Posted: 2012
O Aregbeyen
The effects of working capital management on the profitability of Nigerian manufacturing firms
Journal of Business Economics and Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 520 - 534 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,875
RANK
357,528
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies