Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Service Quality and Challenges for Customers Using Servqual Model: The Case of Nifas Silk Lafto Sub-City

Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Teketel Agafari Ansebo

Parul University - Parul University, Parul Institute of Management and Research, Students

Date Written: October 17, 2024

Abstract

In a world of competitive business environments, one of the most critical areas firms must focus on being successful is customer handling. The better a firm's service delivery, the higher the chance of retaining customer loyalty while having new customers. However, such a scenario becomes complicated when the expected customer satisfaction is not met, because of poor quality of service delivery, at businesses where there is no alternative firm to switch to and get the desired service. Sub-city-level offices are an excellent example of such businesses. Nevertheless, it is a worst-kept secret that the service quality at these government offices is anything but acceptable. The aim of the study was to see the determinants of service delivery quality and to point out the challenges customers face when seeking service in the sub-city. Both qualitative and quantitative methods were employed to answer the level of quality-of-service delivery at Nifas Silk Lafto Sub-City (NSLSC) and how to overcome these challenges. A structured questionnaire was used to gather the relevant data from a sample of 200 respondents who were selected by using a simple random sampling technique. The questionnaire was developed based on the five dimensions SERVQUAL model. The data was then analyzed using descriptive statistical and multiple regression analysis, which was done using SPSS version 25. Thus, the correlation results indicate a moderate negative correlation between the dimensions of service quality and overall customer satisfaction. The results of the regression test showed that quality service has a negative impact on overall customer satisfaction. Furthermore, relatively higher correlation is between responsiveness and overall customer satisfaction, followed by tangibility. Based on the findings, the researcher suggested that NSLSC should have active complaint handling mechanisms, provide relevant skill training to its front-line employees, and create an unbiased rewarding mechanism for best-performing employees.

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that there is no any conflict of interest.

Ethics Approval

A written support letter has been requested from the Nifas Silk Lafto Sub City.

Funder Statement

This Project has been funded by myself.

Suggested Citation:

Ansebo, Teketel Agafari, Determinants of Service Quality and Challenges for Customers Using Servqual Model: The Case of Nifas Silk Lafto Sub-City (October 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4990583
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
192
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies