Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empowering Future Accountants: The Role of Self-Regulated Learning in Lifelong Success

23 Pages Posted: 23 Oct 2024

Marelize Malan

University of Johannesburg

Gideon Els

University of Johannesburg

Ilse Karsten

University of Johannesburg

Abstract

This study explores the role of self-regulated learning (SRL) in fostering lifelong learning skills among second-year accounting students. Lifelong learning, a crucial competency for chartered accountants, is closely tied to SRL, which involves actively managing one's cognitive processes, motivation, and learning environment. The study examines SRL through various theoretical lenses, including cognitive, sociocultural, constructivist, and motivational theories. By examining these theories, an integrated programme could be developed that raises students' awareness about self-regulated learners' characteristics. The objective of this study, situated within an action research methodology, is to examine the effective of this programme in increasing students’ knowledge and awareness of SRL skills and how it can be implemented in their learning process. The findings suggest that students found the programme to be fun, educational and insightful. They identified the programme as a tool to empower them with the key elements of SRL. This research contributes to the understanding of how SRL can be developed and applied, offering valuable insights for educators in management and accounting disciplines.

Keywords: Self-regulated learning (SRL), Lifelong learning, Cognitive theories, Sociocultural theories, Constructivist learning, Motivation and self-efficacy.

Suggested Citation:

Malan, Marelize and Els, Gideon and Karsten, Ilse, Empowering Future Accountants: The Role of Self-Regulated Learning in Lifelong Success. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4997277 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4997277
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
46
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies