Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Sustainability Reporting: A Theoretical Framework for Ethical Sustainability Governance

13 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2024

Iwan Suhardjo

University of Canterbury; Universitas International Batam

Chris Akroyd

University of Canterbury - Dept of Accounting and Information Systems

Meiliana Suparman

Universitas Internasional Batam

Date Written: July 23, 2024

Abstract

Current sustainability efforts, often focused solely on reporting, have not had the expected impact. This conceptual paper proposes a framework based on ethical sustainability governance and incorporates a theory of change (ToC) (Organizational Research Services [ORS], 2004), that seeks to show how organizations can move beyond reporting and embrace ethical governance to achieve sustainable outcomes for people and the planet. Unlike frameworks like ESG (environmental, social, and governance), which emphasize external metrics, our framework prioritizes ethical governance and internal drivers for measurable outcomes. The framework also integrates a ToC which informs the framework’s design by outlining the desired long-term outcomes, necessary preconditions for implementation, specific interventions, and methods for measuring progress. Drawing inspiration from diverse theories such as the triple bottom line (TBL), corporate governance, purpose-led organizations, the theory of planned behavior (TPB), dynamic capabilities theory (DCT), and stakeholder theory, our framework establishes four interconnected pillars: environmental, social, cultural, and technological. It emphasizes that ethical governance needs to be the cornerstone of good sustainability-focused action (Ehrenfeld, 2005). Finally, it emphasizes actionable implementation to increase the likelihood of tangible progress toward sustainability goals. By guiding organizations in implementing ethical governance there is a higher chance that sustainability-focused action plans can enable positive outcomes.

Keywords: Ethical Governance, Sustainability, Stakeholder Theory, Change, Culture, Technology

Suggested Citation:

Suhardjo, Iwan and Akroyd, Chris and Suparman, Meiliana, Beyond Sustainability Reporting: A Theoretical Framework for Ethical Sustainability Governance (July 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5005114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5005114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
I Ajzen
The theory of planned behavior: Frequently asked questions
Human Behavior and Emerging Technologies , volume 2 , issue 4 , p. 314 - 324 Posted: 2020
H Al-Shaer , M Zaman
CEO compensation and sustainability reporting assurance: Evidence from the UK
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 158 , issue 1 , p. 233 - 252 Posted: 2019
D Armitage , J Arends , N L Barlow , A Closs , G A Cloutis , M Cowley , C Davis , S D Dunlop , S Ganowski , C Hings , L C Rotich , K Schang , S Tsuji , C Weins
Applying a "theory of change" process to facilitate transdisciplinary sustainability education
Ecology and Society , volume 24 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
M Asif , C Searcy , P Castka
ESG and Industry 5.0: The role of technologies in enhancing ESG disclosure
Technological Forecasting and Social Change , p. 195 - 122806 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
340
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,149
RANK
202,182
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies