Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Ethical Distance between Group Audit Participants Matter for Earnings Quality and Audit Fees?

51 Pages Posted: 2 Nov 2024

Joost Impink

University of Florida

Alex Lyubimov

Concordia University

Ashna Prasad

Monash University

Abstract

Group audits are increasingly common (e.g., the majority of audits of Fortune 500 companies), and regulators have expressed significant concerns over the quality of group audits. Since ethics is a fundamental aspect of auditing, this study examines the association (if any) between group audit participants’ presumed ethical distance, earnings quality, and audit fees. Using the World Values Survey data, we first determine the difference in ethical scores of the group and component auditors based on their country of location. Second, using our calculated ethical distance, we empirically find that when the component auditors are from a less ethical context than the group auditor, ethical distance is associated with lower earnings quality and audit fees. On the contrary, statistically speaking, we do not find that earnings quality improves or affects audit fees if the component auditor is located in a more ethical location than the group auditor. The findings of this archival study will be of interest to global audit regulators as well as group auditors charged with managing the overall group audit quality of multinational entities.

Keywords: Group audits, Component auditor, Ethical distance, Earnings quality, audit fees

Suggested Citation:

Impink, Joost and Lyubimov, Alex and Prasad, Ashna, Does the Ethical Distance between Group Audit Participants Matter for Earnings Quality and Audit Fees?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5008112 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5008112
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
R Ball , L Shivakumar
The role of accruals in asymmetrically timely gain and loss recognition
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 44 , issue 2 , p. 207 - 242 Posted: 2006
M Barrett , D J Cooper , K Jamal
Globalization and the coordinating of work in multinational audits
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2005
M J Beck , J L Gunn , N Hallman
The geographic decentralization of audit firms and audit quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
O Bik , R Hooghiemstra
Cultural differences in auditors' compliance with audit firm policy on fraud risk assessment procedures
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 25 - 48 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
444
RANK
708,404
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies