Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust in Artificial Intelligence - the Role of Occupation and Explanations

54 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Sonja Gabriele Prinz

Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf

Barbara E. Weißenberger

Bucerius Law School; Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: February 28, 2024

Abstract

The utilization of artificial intelligence (AI) varies considerably across domains. This is due to the differing technical conditions for AI application within each domain, as well as the characteristics of the individuals working within them. Among these features are personal experience with AI, situational background and occupational logics. The argument put forth is that different occupational logics, which are linked to but not identical with being trained for and active in particular occupations, account for the usage of AIbased tools in different economic and societal domains. The domains differ significantly in the necessity for justification and explanation of decisions made, the reliance on and reliability of information, and their logic of efficiency. For instance, considerations of performance and efficiency are irrelevant for lawyers, as all that matters are arguments supporting a certain position. The validity of available information is questionable. In contrast, for managers leading a firm, the information may be uncertain but not deliberately falsified, and the performance of a tool is sufficient for its acceptance. The present study operationalizes occupational logics and investigates their effect on trust and the usage of AI-based advice. Our findings indicate that occupational groups do not influence trust behavior.

Keywords: Trust in Artificial Intelligence, Occupational Effects, Professional Setting of AI Usage, Decision-making, Origin, Performance, Explanations

Suggested Citation:

Prinz, Sonja Gabriele and Weißenberger, Barbara E. and Kotzian, Peter, Trust in Artificial Intelligence - the Role of Occupation and Explanations (February 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5008350 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5008350
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
A Adadi , M Berrada
Peeking inside the black-box: a survey on explainable artificial intelligence (XAI)
IEEE Access , volume 6 , p. 52138 - 52160 Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial intelligence: the ambiguous labor market impact of automating prediction
Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2019
V Alexander , C Blinder , P J Zak
Why trust an algorithm? Performance, cognition, and neurophysiology
Computers in Human Behavior , volume 89 , p. 279 - 288 Posted: 2018
K Ashley , K Branting , H Margolis , C R Sunstein
Legal Reasoning and Artificial Intelligence: How Computers" Think
Like Lawyers. University of Chicago Law School Roundtable , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
548
RANK
724,701
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies