Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Framing on Trust in Artificial Intelligence: An Analysis of Acceptance Behavior

58 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2025

Sonja Gabriele Prinz

Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf

Barbara E. Weißenberger

Bucerius Law School; Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf

Peter Kotzian

Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf; Technical University of Darmstadt

Date Written: March 28, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the effects of framing and explanations on the acceptance of artificial intelligence (AI). The aim of this study is to understand how framing can influence user and acceptance behavior before the actual application of AI and what role explanations play during the actual application process. In this experiment, 374 probands were required to make an investment decision and were given decision support from a fund manager and/or AI. All subjects received explanations during the experiment as a basis for decision-making. The results demonstrate that while explanations have no effect, framing has a significant impact on the acceptance of artificial intelligence, leading to higher acceptance and trust. The influence was so pronounced that even poor results of artificial intelligence were considered valid and trustworthy, and framing could generate an irrational algorithm appreciation. This study illustrates the role of framing as an effective means of influencing acceptance behavior, provided that the design is results-oriented and does not promote a one-sided perception of AI.

Keywords: Trust in Artificial Intelligence, Private Setting of AI Usage, Decision-making, Origin, Performance, Explanations, Framing

Suggested Citation:

Prinz, Sonja Gabriele and Weißenberger, Barbara E. and Kotzian, Peter, The Effect of Framing on Trust in Artificial Intelligence: An Analysis of Acceptance Behavior (March 28, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5008348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5008348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
A Afsay , A Tahriri , Z Rezaee
A meta-analysis of factors affecting acceptance of information technology in auditing
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 49 Posted: 2023
N F A Agung , G S Darma
Opportunities and challenges of Instagram algorithm in improving competitive advantage
International Journal of Innovative Science and Research Technology , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 743 - 747 Posted: 2019
S Al Mansoori , S A Salloum , K Shaalan
The impact of artificial intelligence and information technologies on the efficiency of knowledge management at modern organizations: a systematic review. Recent advances in intelligent systems and smart applications , p. 163 - 182 Posted: 2021
V Alexander , C Blinder , P J Zak
Why trust an algorithm? Performance, cognition, and neurophysiology
Computers in Human Behavior , volume 89 , p. 279 - 288 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
257
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,573
RANK
274,135
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies