Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contribution of Control Numbers System on Monitoring Revenue Collection at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Tanzania

Indian Journal of Economics and Finance (IJEF) ISSN: 2582-9378(Online), Volume 4 Issue 2, November 2024

7 Pages Posted: 15 Jan 2025

Elifamily Chambega

Mwenge Catholic University

Nyajinge Mayala

Mwenge Catholic University

Amembah Amos

Mwenge Catholic University

There are 4 versions of this paper

Date Written: November 18, 2024

Abstract

Effective management of revenue collections involves ensuring accuracy, accountability, and transparency in financial transactions, which are critical for maintaining public trust and organizational integrity. This paper sought to assess the contribution of the control number system in monitoring revenue collection at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Center (KCMC) Hospital in Tanzania. The Diffusion of Innovation Theory was used to inform the study. The study adopted a concurrent research design with a mixed approach. The population of the study was 290 employees who are directly concerned with revenue collection at the Hospital. A sample of 153 respondents was obtained using a sample size calculator with a confidence level of 95%, a sampling error of 5%, and a population proportion of 30%. A semistructured questionnaire was distributed to revenue collectors and administrators using a simple random sampling procedure. Content validity was used to ensure the validity of the instrument while a Cronbach alpha coefficient test was used to ensure the reliability of the instrument where a coefficient of 0.792 was obtained. Demographic data were analyzed using descriptive statistics presented in tables. Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and a linear regression was used to test the significance of the variables. The findings revealed that most of the respondents admitted that the control number system influences the control of revenue collection by enabling the Hospital to increase revenue collection. It was further revealed that the control number system can provide an additional competitive edge in monitoring revenue sources and improving the quality of financial reporting. It is concluded that a control number system is important in monitoring revenue collection at KCMC Hospital. The study recommends that to improve the use of the control number system in control of revenue collection, it is crucial to conduct training for all revenue collectors and clients regularly so that the efficiency of the system is kept intact and to reduce associated risks.

Keywords: Control Number System, Monitoring, Revenue Collection, Debit Cards, Credit Cards, POS

Declaration of Interest

We, the Authors of this paper have no personal or financial relationship with other people or organizations that may have or could be perceived to have influenced our study.

Suggested Citation:

Chambega, Elifamily and Mayala, Nyajinge and Amos, Amembah, Contribution of Control Numbers System on Monitoring Revenue Collection at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Tanzania (November 18, 2024). Indian Journal of Economics and Finance (IJEF) ISSN: 2582-9378(Online), Volume 4 Issue 2, November 2024 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5024413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5024413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
268
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies