Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Liquidity Management on the Viability of Microfinance Institutions of Ethiopia

7 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2024

Idris Ali Yimer

Punjabi University

Date Written: December 20, 2022

Abstract

Purpose: Micro-finance institutions have a great contribution to the development of every country's economy through strengthening society's financial requirements. The institutions need to have adequate liquidity to generate sustainable profit. The main intention of the paper was to investigate liquidity's impact on Micro-finance institutions' profitability. Research Methodology: Ten years of secondary data were used from 12 Microfinance institutions and fixed effect regression analysis by the use of E-views version 7 software. Return on assets used as the proxy of profitability to evaluate the financial healthiness of MFIs. Results: This study found that the deposit loan ratio has a significant and negative impact on profitability statistically. Whereas, the debt-to-equity ratio shows a negative signal on Micro-finance Institutions (MFIs) profitability but statistically insignificant. The impact regarding size and deposit asset ratios was positive and significant on MFIs' profitability of Ethiopia. Limitations: Lack of empirical study on the topic was the basic constraint of the study. Contribution: The study concentrated on the financial institutions specifically on microfinance firms. This study helps the institution's management to give appropriate considerations for each component to preserve an optimal level of liquidity and sustainable profit.

Keywords: Viability, Effect, liquidity, Microfinance, Ethiopia

Funder Statement

This research paper was funded by the researchers' own funds.

Suggested Citation:

Ali Yimer, Idris, The Effect of Liquidity Management on the Viability of Microfinance Institutions of Ethiopia (December 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5027165 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5027165
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
91
ABSTRACT VIEWS
430
RANK
658,539
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies