Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consistent Inconsistency: Charitable Donations and EU Vat: Review and Analysis

International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 18-26

Posted: 26 Nov 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Bartosz Gryziak

Independent

Abstract

The VAT Directive does not provide any specific regulation on charitable donations. Most of the EU Member States try to somehow close the gap, either by adapting already existing provisions (zero-value approach or extended notion of commercial gifts of small value) or by enacting preferences on their own initiative (non-taxation or exemption of such donations). This principally concerns unsellable goods, i.e. goods that are still suitable for use but can no longer be placed on the market. The VAT Committee suggests the zero-value approach, but this approach is controversial and uncertain. Therefore, there is a need for a clearly defined VAT regime for charitable donations. In the author’s view, the economic destruction of unsellable goods by means of their donation appears particularly attractive.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/1yspqfw

Keywords: VAT, charities, donations to, supply (VAT), VAT exemption, ECJ case law

Suggested Citation:

Gryziak, Bartosz, Consistent Inconsistency: Charitable Donations and EU Vat: Review and Analysis. International VAT Monitor: Vol. 33 (2022), Issue 1, Pages 18-26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5034204 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/1yspqfw
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
155
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies