Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Evolution of the Dutch Apa Practice: Analysis of Apas in the Netherlands

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 383-393

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Krzysztof Łukosz

Independent

D van Haastrecht

Independent

S. Volleberg

Independent

Abstract

The advance pricing arrangement (APA) landscape in the Netherlands has changed since the 2019 APA decree became effective. The authors examine the developments in the Dutch APA practice, identifying the main trends, risks and opportunities for taxpayers. This article is based on both the information publicly available (e.g. APA summaries and annual reports published by the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration) and the practical experience of the authors in the field of APAs.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/2sn1jzd

Keywords: transfer pricing, APA

Suggested Citation:

Łukosz, Krzysztof and Haastrecht, D van and Volleberg, S., The Evolution of the Dutch Apa Practice: Analysis of Apas in the Netherlands. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 6, Pages 383-393, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/2sn1jzd
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
146
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies