Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of Profits to Construction or Installation Permanent Establishments

International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7

Posted: 2 Dec 2024 Last revised: 18 Feb 2025

Xaver Ditz

Independent

C. Heider

Independent

Abstract

The construction or installation permanent establishment has considerable practical importance. If a construction or installation permanent establishment has been established under domestic law and article 5(3) of the OECD Model , the question arises as to how to determine its profit. On the one hand, the OECD does this based on the generalized principles set out in the Authorised OECD Approach (AOA). On the other hand, Germany’s tax authorities have issued detailed regulations on determining profits for construction or installation permanent establishments, some of which are not consistent with the principles set out in the AOA.

Full-text Paper: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fv5bg2

Keywords: transfer pricing, allocation of profits, PE, AOA, Code of Conduct on Transfer Pricing Documentation, domestic tax law

Suggested Citation:

Ditz, Xaver and Heider, C., Allocation of Profits to Construction or Installation Permanent Establishments. International Transfer Pricing Journal: Vol. 29 (2022), Issue 7, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5037239 or http://dx.doi.org/10.59403/3fv5bg2
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
90
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation (IBFD)

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies