Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Tiered Sales-Based Approach: Digital Sequence Information and Monetary Contributions from Industry

The London School of Economics and Political Science 2024 | DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.13958364

7 Pages Posted: 24 Jan 2025

Saipriya Kamath

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Siva Thambisetty

London School of Economics - Law School

Paul Oldham

The University of Manchester - Manchester Institute of Innovation Research

Date Written: October 21, 2024

Abstract

The Cali Fund is a new multilateral mechanism negotiated during the 16th Conference of the Parties of the Convention on Biological Diversity. It establishes a Global Fund to which users of digital sequence information are expected to make monetary contributions on the basis set out in Decision 16/2 (Digital sequence information on genetic resources). This policy brief produced before the negotiations began, outlines the operational basis of the Fund found in para 3 of the annex to Decision 16/2. It establishes the ‘two out of three’ metrics tiered sales-based approach to the calculation of monetary contributions by entities. Using appropriate thresholds, it provides a fair and transparent method of identifying entities that must contribute to the fund.

The two out of three thresholds method was conceived by Dr Kamath and developed alongside text proposals as part of the LSE Model - as it came to be referred to during the COP16 negotiations. The underlying project  is based on exploratory research undertaken in the run up to the LSE Roundtable on Global Biodiversity Finance and Digital Sequence Information held in London on the 27th and 28th of September 2024. 

Funder Statement

LSE Knowledge Exchange and Impact fund

Suggested Citation:

Kamath, Saipriya and Thambisetty, Siva and Oldham, Paul, A Tiered Sales-Based Approach: Digital Sequence Information and Monetary Contributions from Industry (October 21, 2024). The London School of Economics and Political Science 2024 | DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.13958364, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5038410 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5038410
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
518,107
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies