Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Analytical Platform as a Key Tool For Improving the Cost Management System of a Modern Company

5 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2025

Anna Vekshina

Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO)

Date Written: October 23, 2024

Abstract

The article substantiates the need to use digital technologies in analytical activities to make effective management decisions aimed at optimizing the level of the company's costs. The key capabilities of the analytical platform tools and options for their use in the cost management process are summarized. In addition to the advantages of digital environment technologies, their limitations were identified that must be foreseen and taken into account in the process of their implementation in the cost management system.

Keywords: analytical platform, costs, digital environment, business analytics, business intelligence, advanced analytics

JEL Classification: M41, D22, M49

Suggested Citation:

Vekshina, Anna,

Analytical Platform as a Key Tool For Improving the Cost Management System of a Modern Company

(October 23, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5041163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5041163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
23
ABSTRACT VIEWS
222
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Production, Market Structure & Pricing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies