Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The COVID-19 Pandemic, Accounting Education and Job Market

International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTOxford 2024), University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

4 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025 Last revised: 5 Feb 2025

Galeb Bulbul

University of Sharjah

Ali Hassan

University of Sharjah

Abdulla AlAmeeri

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Irsyadillah Irsyadillah

Syiah Kuala University

Muhammad Al Mahameed

University of Sharjah - College of Business Administration

Date Written: November 21, 2024

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on accounting education and the job market in the emerging United Arab Emirates (UAE) market. This paper collects primary data through eight semi-structured interviews. The thematic content analysis is then used to analyze the interviews and to answer the research questions. During the pandemic, the interviewees indicated minor changes in accounting education practices by shifting to online teaching methods. Modern learning methods are more effective and efficient than traditional methods, and this trend will continue. In addition, they indicated changes in the accounting job market regarding employment procedures, employment and pay rates, firms’ profitability, and investment decisions in information technology. This paper provides insights into how accounting academics, professionals, and learners can maintain their education, jobs, and quality of work during and after the COVID-19 pandemic crisis.

Keywords: Accounting Education, Job Market, COVID-19, Emerging markets

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Bulbul, Galeb and Hassan, Ali and AlAmeeri, Abdulla and Elkelish, Walaa and Irsyadillah, Irsyadillah and Al Mahameed, Muhammad, The COVID-19 Pandemic, Accounting Education and Job Market (November 21, 2024). International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTOxford 2024), University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5045010
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
M Al Mahameed , D Yates , F Gebreiter
Management as ideology: "New" managerialism and the corporate university in the period of Covid-19 , volume 40 , p. 34 - 57 Posted: 2024
M Al Mahameed , U Riaz , L Gee
From unrequited love to sleeping with the enemy: COVID-19 and the future relationship between UK universities and professional accounting bodies
Accounting Research Journal , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 427 - 445 Posted: 2022
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
N Alsuwaidi , A Houti , W W Elkelish , M El-Bannany
The Impact of Pandemics on External Audit Practices
Asian Journal of Business and Accounting , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
393
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies