Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact Of Machine Learning On Prescriptive Analytics For Optimized Business Decision-Making

12 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

MD Hasanujamman Bari

Lamar University - College of Business

Anjuman Ara

College of Business, Beaumont

Date Written: April 15, 2024

Abstract

This study investigates into the integration of Machine Learning (ML) with Prescriptive Analytics, showcasing the enhancement of decision-making processes in business through this combination. By analyzing contemporary methodologies and practical applications, it delves into how ML algorithms significantly improve the precision, efficiency, and forecasting capabilities of prescriptive analytics. Highlighting case studies across a variety of sectors, the research underscores the competitive edge businesses can gain by adopting these sophisticated analytical tools. Moreover, it addresses the array of technical and organizational hurdles that arise with the implementation of ML-enhanced prescriptive analytics, such as challenges in data handling, system integration, and the demand for specialized skills. Leveraging the latest advancements and insights from experts, the paper offers a compilation of best practices and strategic methodologies to effectively overcome these obstacles. Conclusively, it emphasizes the critical role of continuous innovation in ML and prescriptive analytics, encouraging firms to adopt these cutting-edge technologies to maintain a competitive stance in the fast-evolving, data-centric business landscape.

Keywords: Machine Learning (ML), Prescriptive Analytics, Decision-Making, Business Operations, Competitive Advantage

Suggested Citation:

Bari, MD Hasanujamman and Ara, Anjuman, The Impact Of Machine Learning On Prescriptive Analytics For Optimized Business Decision-Making (April 15, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050060 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050060
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
H Ahmed , M Al Bashar , M A Taher , M A Rahman
Innovative Approaches To Sustainable Supply Chain Management In The Manufacturing Industry: A Systematic Literature Review
Global Mainstream Journal of Innovation, Engineering & Emerging Technology , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2024
M Bappy
Exploring the Integration of Informed Machine Learning in Engineering Applications: A Comprehensive Review
American Journal of Science and Learning for Development , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 11 - 21 Posted: 2024
M H Bari , N U M Arif , M M Hasan , M A A Maraj
Comparative Analysis Of Digital Payment Platforms And E-Commerce Giants: A Five-Year Performance And Strategic Development Study Of Visa
Mastercard, Amazon, And Ebay. Global Mainstream Journal of Innovation, Engineering & Emerging Technology , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2024
N V Chawla
The Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Handbook -Data Mining for Imbalanced Datasets: An Overview Posted: 2009
Load more
1 Citations
Samiul Alam Mazumder , Md Ashiqur Rhaman
Patient Care and Financial Integrity in Healthcare Billing Through Advanced Fraud Detection Systems
ACADEMIC JOURNAL ON BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, INNOVATION & SUSTAINABILITY, volume 4, issue 2, 2024[<a href="https://doi.org/10.69593/ajbais.v4i2.74" rel="nofollow">10.69593/ajbais.v4i2.74</a>] · 12 Pages · Posted: 3 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 158
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
462
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
142,697
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Marketing Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies