Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Inferring Accounting Conservatism from Textual Analysis of 10-K Forms

41 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2024

Salil Kumar Sarkar

University of Texas at Arlington

Mahnaz Paydarzarnaghi

University of Texas at Arlington

John David Diltz

Central Michigan University - Department of Finance and Law; University of Texas at Arlington

Abstract

This study applies natural language processing (NLP) techniques to assess the degree of accounting conservatism in a large sample of 10-K filings from 1999 through 2023.  Following an extensive body of research focused on analyzing accounting conservatism using objective financial statement data, we explore the possibility that affective meaning (i.e., the subjective content of 10-K text) may provide insight into the degree of and motivation for conservative accounting practices. Our NLP measures of accounting conservatism, which employed the “log odds ratio informative Dirichlet prior,” generally align with conventional measures regarding conservatism, text uncertainty, and tone, but they differ regarding 10-K readability and analyst forecast accuracy.  We conclude that NLP techniques help analyze accounting conservatism exhibited in SEC filings.

Keywords: Accounting conservatism, NLP, readability, tone, uncertainty, financial reporting conservatism, financial analysts, Log Odds Ratio Informative Dirichlet Prior.

Suggested Citation:

Sarkar, Salil Kumar and Paydarzarnaghi, Mahnaz and Diltz, John David, Inferring Accounting Conservatism from Textual Analysis of 10-K Forms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5050790 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5050790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A S Ahmed , L H Chen , S Duellman , Y Sun
Targets' Accounting Conservatism and the Gains from Acquisition , volume 40 , p. 7 - 40 Posted: 2023
A S Ahmed , S Duellman
Accounting conservatism and board of director characteristics: An empirical analysis
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 43 , issue 2-3 , p. 411 - 437 Posted: 2007
M Arikan , M Kara , A Masli , Y Xi
Political euphoria and corporate disclosures: An investigation of CEO partisan alignment with the president of the United States
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 75 , issue 2-3 Posted: 2023
J W Bae , F Belo , J Li , X Lin , X Zhao
The opposing effects of complexity and information content on uncertainty dynamics: Evidence from 10-K filings
Management Science , volume 69 , issue 10 , p. 6313 - 6332 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
95
ABSTRACT VIEWS
472
RANK
640,442
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies