Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organized Crime and Banks: Assessing the Effects of Anti-Mafia Police Actions on Lending

31 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2024

Bruno Buchetti

University of Padua - Department of Economics and Management ; European Central Bank (ECB)

Michele Fabrizi

University of Padua

Elisabetta Ipino

Seattle University - Albers School of Business and Economics

Ixart Miquel-Flores

European Central Bank (ECB); Frankfurt School of Finance & Mangement.

Antonio Parbonetti

University of Padua

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 02, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of dismantling Mafia-connected firms on bank lending practices in Italy, focusing on changes in credit terms. Leveraging a unique dataset of 667 Mafia-connected firms and data from the European Central Bank, we analyze the consequences of 38 targeted anti-Mafia operations from 2019 to 2021. Our findings indicate a rise in loan volumes per line of credit, with peer firms in affected municipalities experiencing an average increase of 0.8%. This effect is more pronounced in areas with extensive Mafia activities, showing a 1.2% increase, and in regions where removed firms were involved in rent extraction, where the increase reaches 2.1%. These results underscore the potential for significant economic recovery in these regions. Alongside the surge in lending, borrowing costs have also increased, driven by heightened risk perceptions stemming from the explicit revelation of Mafia-infiltrated companies within certain territories. This disclosure has increased the likelihood of default by firms in these areas. Cross-sectional analyses indicate that responses to these new risks vary among banks: local and domestic banks, as well as those that have newly discovered Mafia-connected customers due to recent police actions, show no significant changes in their interest rates. In contrast, non-local and foreign banks, as well as banks without prior exposure to Mafia-affiliated firms, face heightened challenges due to a general lack of detailed local knowledge about the evolving economic landscape. These findings highlight the dynamic responses of financial institutions to the eradication of organized crime, illustrating both the challenges and opportunities for economic revitalization in post-Mafia environments.

Keywords: Credit Market, Organized Crime, E58, G11, Credit Risk, E52

JEL Classification: E52, E58, G11

Suggested Citation:

Buchetti, Bruno and Fabrizi, Michele and Ipino, Elisabetta and Miquel-Flores, Ixart and Parbonetti, Antonio, Organized Crime and Banks: Assessing the Effects of Anti-Mafia Police Actions on Lending (December 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5059258 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5059258
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
G A Akerlof
The market for "lemons": Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
F Allum , R Siebert
Organised crime and the challenge to democracy Posted: 2004
F Ambrosini , M Fabrizi , E Ipino , A Parbonetti
Mafia entrepreneur: Implications for industry peers in non-traditional territories Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
161
ABSTRACT VIEWS
976
RANK
331,643
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Banking & Insurance eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies