Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reinterpreting the ROS Index: A Strategic Analysis of Profitability

16 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2025

Gianluca Delfino

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: August 10, 2024

Abstract

Traditionally, companies calculate the Return on Sales (ROS) as EBIT divided by sales. This work aims to rethink the ROS formula by introducing a novel decomposition: ROS = Contribution Margin Ratio (CMR) × Margin of Safety (MOS). This approach shifts the focus from a purely efficiency-driven (“cost-centric”) perspective to a strategic perspective that incorporates both profitability potential (CMR) and risk buffers against sales volatility (MOS). By analyzing the interplay between CMR and MOS, this framework highlights the Profitability Transition Point (PTP) where the relative influence of these factors shifts. It emphasizes how an investigation of the PTP allows for a novel understanding of the factors that shape profitability. Moreover, this new interpretation offers managers a deeper understanding of how decisions about prices, costs, and sales expectations affect profitability, providing valuable insights for planning, budgeting, and risk management. The proposed framework enhances managerial decision-making by clarifying how assumptions about costs and sales translate into different profitability outcomes.

Declaration of Interest

N.A.

Ethics Approval

N.A.

Funder Statement

N.A.

Suggested Citation:

Delfino, Gianluca, Reinterpreting the ROS Index: A Strategic Analysis of Profitability (August 10, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5061592 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5061592
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
487,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometrics: Mathematical Methods & Programming eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies