Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Data Analytics Adoption in Auditing: The Roles of Experience, Mindset, Training, and Risk Factor Awareness

35 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2025

Zheng J. Leitter

Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University

Christian Peters

University of Wisconsin-Madison

Date Written: December 20, 2024

Abstract

Audit firms increasingly use data analytics (DA) approaches rather than traditional audit approaches. We combine elements of a laboratory study and an experiment with experienced auditors to investigate the determinants of DA adoption in auditing. Specifically, auditors are tasked to conduct analytical procedures and can choose whether to use a DA or a traditional audit approach. Consistent with our predictions, we find preliminary evidence that different experience-related variables (work, task, and DA-experience) and having a growth mindset are positively associated with auditors’ choice for the DA approach. Next, we use a 1 x 3 between-participants experiment to test two interventions. We find evidence that informing auditors about the workflow of DA increases DA adoption, yet providing additional training about the risk factors of DA significantly decreases adoption. This presents an important conundrum as being aware of risk factors associated with a DA approach could reasonably increase auditors’ performance.

Keywords: Auditing, Data Analytics, Technology Adoption, Technology Risks

Ethics Approval

IRB approval has been obtained from the institution where the research was carried out.

Funder Statement

This study was supported by research grant 2020B03 from the Foundation for Auditing Research. All results, interpretations, and conclusions expressed are those of the authors alone, and do not represent the views of the FAR.

JEL Classification: M42, C91, D83

Suggested Citation:

Leitter, Zheng J. and Peters, Christian P. H., Data Analytics Adoption in Auditing: The Roles of Experience, Mindset, Training, and Risk Factor Awareness (December 20, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5066046 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5066046
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Guide to Audit Data Analytics Fact Sheet Posted: 2017
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
A Bandura
Self-Efficacy: The Exercise of Control Posted: 1997
A Beaudry , A Pinsonneault
Understanding user responses to information technology: A coping model of user adaptation
MIS Quarterly , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 493 - 524 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
180
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
383,022
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies