Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of FinTech on Sustainable Financial Inclusion - The Case of India

Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Optimization Techniques in the Field of Engineering (ICOFE-2024)

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2025

Gopalakrishnan C

Jain Deemed To Be University

Vinoth S

CMS Business School

Araby Madbouly

Muscat College

P Radhakrishnan

Sri Krishna Arts and Science College - Department of Commerce

Nahla Hassan Ali

Higher Technological Institute

Date Written: November 15, 2024

Abstract

FinTech solution offers new dimensions of enabling people and businesses to use technology-enabled channels for accessing the services. This, in return, greatly contributes to lowering the cost of financial services, inclusiveness of credit, and enhancing financial literacy among the underserved population. However, a number of limiting factors to FinTech adoption remain pertaining to the conditions of infrastructure, digital literacy, and regulatory frameworks. The influence FinTech has on sustainable financial inclusions is explored in this paper. The responses were collected through a survey from 500 customers belonging to Small Finance Banks in rural areas of India. Collected inputs have been analyzed through descriptive statistics, factor analysis, and SEM. The result of this study indicates that access to technology, awareness, and knowledge influence financial inclusion positively. This paper may help increase the adoption of FinTech solutions that could improve financial sustainability; it may also help financial institutions adapt to the needed changes in the market.

Keywords: Fintech, Financial Inclusion, Sustainability, Financial Services, SEM.

Suggested Citation:

C, Gopalakrishnan and S, Vinoth and Madbouly, Araby and Radhakrishnan, P and Ali, Nahla Hassan, Impact of FinTech on Sustainable Financial Inclusion - The Case of India (November 15, 2024). Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Optimization Techniques in the Field of Engineering (ICOFE-2024), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5066763 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5066763
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
T Arun , R Kamath
Financial inclusion: Policies and practices
IIMB Management Review , volume 27 , issue 4 , p. 267 - 287 Posted: 2015
A Barajas , T Beck , M Belhaj , S Naceur , Ben
WP/20/157 Financial Inclusion: What Have We Learned So Far? What Do We Have to Learn? IMF Working Paper
Imf.Org, IMF Workin , p. 1 - 52 Posted: 2020
E Feyen , J Frost , L Gambacorta , H Natarajan , M Saal
Fintech and the digital transformation of financial services: implications for market structure and public policy , volume 117 Posted: 2021
Krishna Kishore , S V Sequeira , A H
An empirical investigation on mobile banking service adoption in rural Karnataka
SAGE Open , volume 6 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
167
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,239
RANK
409,562
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies