Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Characteristics and Their Impacts on Audit Quality: Evidence from Around the World

20 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Janean Rundo

Bowling Green State University - College of Business Administration

Lingting Jiang

East Tennessee State University

Linna Shi

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Nan Zhou

University of Cincinnati - Lindner College of Business

Date Written: April 01, 2024

Abstract

Public company audits are not homogenous. Varying audit partner attributes, including gender, age, location, and expertise, play important roles in explaining audit outcome disparities. The extant literature underscores the influence of firm-level and office-level differences, in areas such as size, culture, and industry expertise, in shaping audit outcomes. Commonwealth countries, such as the U.K., Australia, New Zealand, and Continental European countries, along with Asian economic entities, mandate the disclosure of audit partner names. Consequently, significant research efforts have been devoted to investigating the impact of audit partner characteristics on audit outcomes in these jurisdictions. With the adoption of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) Rule 3211, mandating disclosure of audit engagement partner details for U.S.-registered public accounting firms on Form AP, there has been a surge in U.S. firm research exploring the significance of audit partner characteristics on audit outcomes in recent years. This paper outlines research that considers audit partner attributes’ influence on audit partner selection and audit quality across different economic entities. This entry contributes by synthesizing findings from recent research across diverse economic contexts, including the recently available insights from U.S.-based audits. The analysis of this entry not only provides insights into the current state of audit partner research but also delineates avenues for future research on this topic.

Keywords: audit partner characteristics, audit quality, global evidence, pcaob, audit partner attributes, gender, age, location, expertise, Form AP

Suggested Citation:

Rundo, Janean and Jiang, Lingting and Shi, Linna and Zhou, Nan, Audit Partner Characteristics and Their Impacts on Audit Quality: Evidence from Around the World (April 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5068845 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5068845
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
A P Disclosures , U S Cunningham , Li Stein , Hoitash Wright ; Burke , Hoitash
More recently, studies have been mixed on the benefits of Rule 3211 for audit quality and audit fees. Researchers found that U.S.-based disclosure of audit partner names did not significantly change the audit quality landscape for U.S.based audits when comparing early adopters with those with full adoption Posted: 2019
Tarek Abdelfattah , Mohamed Elmahgoub , Ahmed A Elamer
Female audit partners and extended audit reporting: UK evidence
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 174 , issue 1 , p. 177 - 197 Posted: 2021
Rick Antle
The auditor as an economic agent
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 503 - 527 Posted: 1982
Baiman , John H Stanley , James Evans , Noel
Optimal contracts with a utilitymaximizing auditor
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 217 - 244 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
123
ABSTRACT VIEWS
729
RANK
528,080
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies