Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Word on the Street: Field Evidence of Artificial Intelligence Use in Sell-Side Equity Research

50 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2025 Last revised: 30 Sep 2025

Margaret H. Christ

University of Georgia - Terry College of Business

MJ Kim

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Michael A. Yip

University of Georgia

Date Written: September 30, 2025

Abstract

We provide field evidence on the use and impact of AI on sell-side research by conducting 35 semi-structured interviews and a supplemental survey of 190 sell-side analysts. We interpret our findings using resourced-based theory which proposes new capabilities are adopted when they provide a sustained competitive advantage. Our study reveals several key findings. First, sell-side analysts describe adopting AI to primarily improve their efficiency rather than to extract unique insights which is challenging given AI’s wide availability. Second, sell-side analysts discuss concerns of AI displacing some of their traditional services. Third, sell-side analysts describe turning to their relational network to extract differentiated insights to maintain their status alongside AI advancements. Fourth, our interviewees discuss strategies to protect their proprietary research from threats posed by external AI. Overall, our study contributes to understanding of how professionals navigate technological disruption and the conditions under which AI provides a sustained competitive advantage.

Keywords: artificial intelligence, equity analysts, qualitative field study, resource based theory

Ethics Approval

All survey materials and data collection procedures were approved by the Institutional Review Board at University of Wisconsin-Madison and University of Georgia.

Suggested Citation:

Christ, Margaret H. and Kim, Minjeong and Yip, Michael A., Word on the Street: Field Evidence of Artificial Intelligence Use in Sell-Side Equity Research (September 30, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5071836 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5071836
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
A A Austin , T D Carpenter , M H Christ , C S Nielson
The data analytics journey: Interactions among auditors, managers, regulation, and technology
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 1888 - 1924 Posted: 2021
Barclayhedge
BarclayHedge Survey: Majority of Hedge Fund Pros Use AI/Machine Learning in Investment Strategies Posted: 2018
J Barney
Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage
Journal of management , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 120 Posted: 1991
J Bertomeu , Y Lin , Y Liu , Z Ni
The Impact of Generative AI on Information Processing: Evidence from the Ban of ChatGPT in Italy
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,340
RANK
306,268
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies