Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Organization: On changes in information technology and organizational design

Foundations and Trends in Accounting

102 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2025 Last revised: 14 Jan 2025

Michael Gibbs

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business; Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA)

Wim A. Van der Stede

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE)

Date Written: January 06, 2025

Abstract

This monograph is about how recent advances in information technology and communication capabilities have changed and have the potential to change organizations. We adopt the perspective of organizations as processors of knowledge that collect, create, combine and/or analyze data through information technology (IT) to locate and coordinate decisions, improve performance evaluations, and enhance interest alignment (Fig. 1). We distinguish between information communication and information processing technologies. Pivotal to our framework is whether IT improves coordination or improves incentives, and thereby the extent of (de)centralization. We document that evidence on IT’s effect on (de)centralization is ambiguous, but reconcile how advanced IT may improve decisions and lower agency costs (Fig. 2). Complementarities thus feature strongly in our rendering of IT’s effects on organizational design. We end with some suggestions, such as the need to consider the lifecycle of IT effects, acknowledging the slow and complex, though pervasive, nature of technology adoption in organizations.

Keywords: Information technology, Organizational design, Economics of organization, Personnel economics, Management accounting

JEL Classification: L2, M5, O3

Suggested Citation:

Gibbs, Michael and Van der Stede, Wim A., The Information Organization: On changes in information technology and organizational design (January 06, 2025). Foundations and Trends in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5084196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5084196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
136 References
M Abernethy , K Chin , S Nair , N Soderstrom
Can technology-enabled advanced monitoring systems influence individual performance and team dynamics?
The European Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 577 - 605 Posted: 2023
D Acemoglu , P Aghion , C Lelarge , J Van Reenen , F Zilibotti
Technology, information, and the decentralization of the firm
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 122 , issue 4 , p. 1759 - 1799 Posted: 2007
A Agrawal , J Gans , A Goldfarb
Exploring the impact of artificial intelligence: Prediction versus judgment Posted: 2018
A Agrawal , J S Gans , A Goldfarb
Artificial intelligence: The ambiguous labor market impact of automating prediction
The Journal of Economic Perspectives , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 31 - 50 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
353
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,145
RANK
193,945
136 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies