Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investments in the financial reporting process

Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7243-24

38 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2025

Maria Khrakovsky

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Nemit Shroff

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Three of the primary outcomes of a firm's financial reporting process are: 1) the production of financial reports, 2) the reduction of fraud, manipulation, and errors in financial reports, and 3) the collection of financial information that can also inform managers' internal decision-making processes. This chapter provides insights into investments firms make in the financial reporting process, including investments in information technology systems, internal control systems, external assurance, and accounting human capital, among others, which can help firms achieve all three outcomes. While such investments may not be of the highest priority for early-stage companies due to costs and the absence of regulatory requirements, these investments can benefit firms greatly by improving operational efficiency and performance, attracting external capital, and setting a foundation of accountability and trust with stakeholders both inside and outside of the firm. Lastly, we discuss and highlight emerging and unanswered academic research questions in this area.

Keywords: Financial reporting, investments, internal controls, internal decision-making, Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), fraud

Suggested Citation:

Khrakovsky, Maria and Shroff, Nemit, Investments in the financial reporting process (November 01, 2024). Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7243-24, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5085980 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5085980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
C R Alexander , S W Bauguess , G Bernile , Y A Lee , J Marietta-Westberg
Economic effects of SOX Section 404 compliance: A corporate insider perspective
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 267 - 290 Posted: 2013
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D W Collins , W R Kinney , R Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies on firm risk and cost of equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
M Ashraf
Does automation improve financial reporting? Evidence from internal controls
Review of Accounting Studies Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
766
RANK
344,239
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies