Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Ethnically Distinct CEOs and Corporate Decision-Making

64 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025 Last revised: 18 Sep 2025

Edward Podolski

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Economics, Finance and Marketing; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Madhu Veeraraghavan

T.A. PAI Management Institute, Finance Area

Ghasan Baghdadi

La Trobe University - La Trobe Business School - Department of Finance

Date Written: January 01, 2025

Abstract

We develop a novel measure of CEO ethnic distinctiveness, capturing the extent to which CEOs feel “out of place” relative to their peers, and examine its implications for employee welfare. Ethnically distinct CEOs are associated with improved workplace safety and employee well-being, but these gains come at the expense of reduced firm efficiency. However, once these CEOs accumulate significant power or cultivate stronger social ties, their emphasis on safety diminishes, indicating that it is less an intrinsic leadership trait than a compensatory response to lower social and positional power. Capital markets, especially institutional investors dedicated to monitoring, alleviate these dynamics, presumably by reducing CEOs’ career concerns. Overall, our findings highlight how the challenges faced by ethnically distinct leaders shape corporate policies and underscore the role of capital markets in addressing structural barriers as leadership diversity grows.

Keywords: Corporate policies, Managerial diversity, Workplace safety, Ethnic diversity

Suggested Citation:

Podolski, Edward and Veeraraghavan, Madhu and Baghdadi, Ghasan,

Ethnically Distinct CEOs and Corporate Decision-Making

(January 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5115461 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5115461
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
R Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of financial economics , volume 94 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
P Aghion , J Van Reenen , L Zingales
Innovation and institutional ownership
American economic review , volume 103 , p. 277 - 304 Posted: 2013
M Alexopoulos , K Lyons , K Mahetaji , M Barnes , R Gutwillinger
Gender inference: can chatGPT outperform common commercial tools?
Missing Pieces Report: The Board Diversity Census of Women and Minorities on Fortune 500 Boards, 6th Edition Posted: 2023
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Larcker , S X Shi
Rabn-and-file accounting employee compensation and financial reporting quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 78 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
711
RANK
556,623
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies