Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Musharakah Mutanaqisah home financing: issues in practice

DOI 10.1108/JIABR-08-2015-0036

14 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2025

Alam Asadov

Prince Sultan University

Zulkarnain Muhamad Sori

INCEIF UNIVERSITY; INCEIF, The Global University of Islamic Finance

Shamsher Mohamad

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF)

Zaheer Anwer

Sunway Business School, Sunway University

Shinaj Shamsudheen

International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCEIF), Students

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

Purpose – This paper aims to examine the practical issues in the Musharakah Mutanaqisah (MM) financing
and subsequently, recommends possible solutions to mitigate these issues and improve the current practice.
Design/methodology/approach – This paper analyses the theory and current practices of MM offered
by Islamic banks.
Findings – It is suggested that Islamic financial institutions consider revaluation of property’s value to its
fair value, especially during termination of MM contract and annual or agreed periodic review of the market
value of the assets to determine the “rental” payments by the customer. It is also recommended that Islamic
financial institutions should share all associated costs in performing the contract.
Research limitations/implications – Research findings reported in this paper contribute to the body
of knowledge on MM in general and to the Islamic finance practices in Malaysia and abroad. Indeed, the
Malaysia Central Bank (i.e. Bank Negara Malaysia) should form a special committee to look into the issues
highlighted in this paper and recommend strict guidelines for Islamic financial institutions to improve their
practices.
Practical implications – Islamic banks should extend the use of MM contract in automobile and trade
financing where rent or profit could be easily identified and value of the asset is more certain. The regulators
and Islamic financial standard setting authorities need to oversee the Shari’ah board decisions on MM
contracts and keep the gates in the interest of ensuring a more viable and authentic Islamic finance industry.
Originality/value – This paper briefly views the current mode of MM contracts, specifically for home
financing, and highlights the incompliance to Shari’ah requirements in exercising these contracts in practice.

Keywords: Islamic banking, Musharakah Mutanaqisah, Shariah compliance, Home financing Paper type Research paper

Suggested Citation:

Asadov, Alam and Muhamad Sori, Zulkarnain and Mohamad, Shamsher and Anwer, Zaheer and Shamsudheen, Shinaj, Musharakah Mutanaqisah home financing: issues in practice (June 30, 2016). DOI 10.1108/JIABR-08-2015-0036, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5117329 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5117329
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
136 of OIC's International Fiqh Academy Posted: 2004
See Boon , Ka
Posted: 2009
D Abdul-Razak , H Amin
Application of Musharakah Mutanaqisah home financing as an alternative to traditional debt financing: lessons learned from the US 2007 subprime crisis
Journal of Islamic Economics Banking and Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 115 - 130 Posted: 2013
N A K Al-Kawamelah
Musharakah Mutanaqisah and Its Contemporary Practice: Jordan Islamic Bank as an Example, Dar al-Nafa'is Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
207
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,373
RANK
337,844
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies