Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harnessing humility: The Effects of Partner humility and Surface-Level Diversity on Auditors' Fraud Brainstorming Outcomes

Posted: 3 Apr 2025

Sudip Bhattacharjee

Virginia Tech - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Kimberly Walker

Virginia Tech

Date Written: February 02, 2025

Abstract

The CAQ suggests that junior auditors provide unique insights to fraud brainstorming teams, yet these auditors often hesitate to speak up, fearing negative input from supervisors. This study posits that one unexplored aspect of audit leadership, leader humility, may enhance junior auditors' contributions because a humble leader can facilitate information sharing and idea generation. Concurrently, audit newcomers working virtually across multiple engagements have difficulty developing close bonds and may be influenced by team members' surface features prevalent in an increasingly diverse workforce. The influence of a humble leader can differ based on a team's surface-level diversity because diversity influences information elaboration. Using a 2 (leader humility: present versus absent) X 2 (surface-level diversity: higher versus lower) experiment we predict and find that junior auditors who work with a humble team leader (rather than less humble) identify more fraud risk and evidence factors during brainstorming since humility enhances speaking up. Furthermore, given the information elaboration impact of diversity, the effects of humility are diminished when diversity is higher. Overall, leader humility and diversity jointly improve junior auditors' brainstorming performance.

Keywords: humility, surface-level diversity, partner influence, fraud, brainstorming

Suggested Citation:

Bhattacharjee, Sudip and King, Tisha and Walker, Kimberly, Harnessing humility: The Effects of Partner humility and Surface-Level Diversity on Auditors' Fraud Brainstorming Outcomes (February 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5124663
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies