Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
COST CONTROL AND PROFITABILITY OF LISTED MANUFACTURING COMPANIES IN NIGERIA

Fuoye Journal of Management Sciences; Volume 2, Number 1; 2024 (Online)

37 Pages Posted: 10 Feb 2025

Abdulfatai Olanrewaju Nurudeen

Crescent University

Hussein Ajibola

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 01, 2024

Abstract

Due to intense competition, high labour and other manufacturing costs, and differences in currency rates, many businesses fall short of the profitability that owners had hoped for. The alarming rate of winding up manufacturing outfit in Nigeria were linked to high cost of operation, as many businesses are unable to withstand price wars. The study investigates cost control and profitability of listed manufacturing companies in Nigeria, with reference to ten listed manufacturing businesses in Nigeria. The study employed an ex-post facto research design. Secondary data was incorporated by this study through the financial statements of the chosen firms, which entails a ten-year period (2014-2023). Descriptive statistics, correlations, and regression were employed to analyze the data. The study found that net profit margin of the selected firms is significantly affected by cost of sales and distribution cost. The study concludes that potential investors can rely on cost of sales and distribution cost in forecasting net profit margin of the selected listed manufacturing outfits. It was recommended that management of Nigerian manufacturing companies should routinely assess the production and operational costs of their companies which will in turn improve the firms' profitability.

Keywords: Cost control, Cost of Sales, Distribution cost, Net profit margin and Profitability, Profitability

Declaration of Interest

No special interest from any person or organization

Ethics Approval

The ethic guidelines were strictly adhered to

Funder Statement

No fund was received in respect of this study

Suggested Citation:

Nurudeen, Abdulfatai Olanrewaju and Ajibola, Hussein, COST CONTROL AND PROFITABILITY OF LISTED MANUFACTURING COMPANIES IN NIGERIA (November 01, 2024).
Fuoye Journal of Management Sciences; Volume 2, Number 1; 2024 (Online)
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5130143 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5130143
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
F O Adam , K A Anders , T O Fred
The interaction effect of cost control systems and information technology integration on manufacturing plant financial performance
European Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance Research , volume 3 , issue 7 , p. 76 - 94 Posted: 2018
D K Adamu
The effect cost on profitability of an organization
African Scholars Journal of Business Development and Management Research , volume 27 , issue 7 , p. 1 - 10 Posted: 2022
E Adebawojo , A E Adegbie , O T Adebawo
Capital structure and the performance of quoted companies in Nigeria
International Journal of Management Sciences & Business Research , volume 6 , issue 8 , p. 24 - 45 Posted: 2022
A A Adesina , J O Ikhu-Omoregbe , F T Aboaba
The effect of cost information, sales information and marketing information on profitability
Journal of Accounting & Strategic Finance , volume 12 , issue 5 , p. 14 - 33 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
292
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,426
RANK
238,435
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies