Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Job Performance Among Professionals at a Global Audit Firm: A Multi-Country and Multi-Office Study in Latin America

48 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2025

Rosa Gonzalez

Universidad de los Andes

Stephen Salter

Middle Tennessee State University

Rodrigo Taborda

Universidad de los Andes

Felipe Janica

Universitaria EADA - EADA Business School

Abstract

Global audit firms serve many interest groups, including clients who are both local and global, audit committees, and multiple regulators such as the PCAOB. Increasingly, the information they provide has changed from technical data to staff judgment and the ability to facilitate a collaborative network service (CNS) that collects values and reuses information to improve firm performance (Knechel et al., 2020).Currently, global audit firms use a single culture-neutral global control system to create these networks. However, we hypothesize that facilitating CNS requires auditors to use emotional intelligence. Further drawing on the work of Bik and Hooghiemstra (2018), we posit that the effectiveness of the control system is not culture-neutral but rather depends on the location for their efficacy. Using firm-based “global performance measures” from 753 auditors in a single audit firm, we find that emotional intelligence and country location significantly explain auditor job performance. We further find that gender, education, and firm rank are also relevant in explaining performance. The study fills important gaps in our knowledge of Latin American perspectives, the cross-national efficacy of emotional intelligence, and additional factors that affect performance in the audit industry.

Keywords: Job Performance, Emotional Intelligence, Latin America, Audit Services

Suggested Citation:

Gonzalez, Rosa and Salter, Stephen and Taborda, Rodrigo and Janica, Felipe, Explaining Job Performance Among Professionals at a Global Audit Firm: A Multi-Country and Multi-Office Study in Latin America. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5134772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5134772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
S Aghazadeh , J O Brown , L Guichard , K Hoang
Persuasion in Auditing: A Review Through the Lens of the Communication-Persuasion Matrix
The European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 145 - 172 Posted: 2022
H Aguinis , I Villamor , S G Lazzarini , R S Vassolo , J E Amorós , D G Allen
Conducting Management Research in Latin America: Why and What's in It for You
Journal of Management , volume 46 , issue 5 , p. 615 - 636 Posted: 2020
C T Alberti , J C Bedard , O Bik , A Vanstraelen
Audit Firm Culture: Recent Developments and Trends in the Literature
The European Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 109 Posted: 2022
W Alissa , V Capkun , T Jeanjean , N Suca
An empirical investigation of the impact of audit and auditor characteristics on auditor performance
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 39 , issue 7 , p. 495 - 510 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Latin American Business eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies