Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Legal Shifts and Corporate Strategy: The Impact of China's New Securities Law on Earnings Management

Posted: 11 Mar 2025 Last revised: 11 Mar 2025

Yikai Zhao

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Shutong Zhang

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Xinyi Geng

Tohoku University - Graduate School of Economics & Management

Date Written: December 01, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of China's New Securities Law (NSL) on real earnings management (REM) practices among listed companies. Employing a difference-indifferences (DID) approach, we find that the implementation of NSL significantly reduces REM activities. Our results remain robust after addressing concerns about unobserved confounders and a series of robustness checks. Further analysis shows that this effect is driven by enhanced internal control, improved audit quality, and increased retail investor monitoring. The reduction in REM is more pronounced in SOEs, firms with stronger board independence, abnormal audit fees, and higher executive pay. These findings highlight the policy significance of broad legal reforms beyond accounting standards in shaping corporate behavior and governance in emerging markets.

Keywords: New Securities Law, Real Earnings Management, PSM-DID

JEL Classification: G38, K22, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Yikai and Zhang, Shutong and Geng, Xinyi, Legal Shifts and Corporate Strategy: The Impact of China's New Securities Law on Earnings Management (December 01, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5143041 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5143041
 Not Available for Download
50 References
Al-Shattarat , Khaled Basiem , Wasim Hussainey , Al-Shattarat
The impact of abnormal real earnings management to meet earnings benchmarks on future operating performance
International Review of Financial Analysis , volume 81 Posted: 2022
Mohammad Alhadab , Iain Clacher
The impact of audit quality on real and accrual earnings management around IPOs
The British Accounting Review , volume 50 , issue 4 , p. 442 - 461 Posted: 2018
Ashbaugh-Skaife , Daniel W Hollis , William R Collins , Ryan Kinney , Lafond
The effect of SOX internal control deficiencies and their remediation on accrual quality
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 1 , p. 217 - 250 Posted: 2008
Manoj Athavale , Zhaorui Guo , Yun Meng , Tianshu Zhang
Diversity of signing auditors and audit quality: Evidence from capital market in China
International Review of Economics & Finance , volume 78 , p. 554 - 571 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
250
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies