Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Market Consequences of Journalists' Financial Accounting Focus

56 Pages Posted: 20 Feb 2025 Last revised: 10 Sep 2025

Kimball Chapman

Arizona State University (ASU)

Nicholas Guest

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management; Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Jared N. Jennings

Washington University in St. Louis

Date Written: September 09, 2025

Abstract

We explore the usefulness of news articles written with a financial accounting focus. We measure the financial accounting focus of each article by counting the frequency of common finance and accounting words in a sample of 105,193 Wall Street Journal articles covering public firms between 2008 and 2021. We observe greater trading volume and unsigned abnormal returns following the publication of articles written with more of a financial accounting focus. The associations we document are amplified when there is more noise in stock prices and when analyst forecasts are more dispersed, which is when investors are more likely to look for help in identifying and interpreting information about the firm. We also find that the estimates are attenuated for firms with more robust information environments. Our results are robust to several approaches that address endogeneity concerns, including omitting articles published close to SEC filings, controlling for recent earnings announcement reactions, and using competing news coverage as an instrument for financial accounting focus. These results contribute to the literature on capital market consequences of news media by identifying a key financial-accounting-based mechanism through which journalists create and disseminate value-relevant information.

Keywords: financial media, journalists, investors, valuation, specialization

Declaration of Interest

The authors have no conﬂicts of interest related to this research.

JEL Classification: G10, G11, G12, G14, G20, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Chapman, Kimball and Guest, Nicholas and Jennings, Jared N., Capital Market Consequences of Journalists' Financial Accounting Focus (September 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5145051 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5145051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
M E Barth , K Li , C G Mcclure
Evolution in value relevance of accounting information
The Accounting Review , volume 98 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2023
E Bartov , L Faurel , P S Mohanram
Can Twitter help predict firm-level earnings and stock returns?
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 57 Posted: 2018
R Bhushan
Firm characteristics and analyst following
Journal of accounting and economics , volume 11 , issue 2-3 , p. 255 - 274 Posted: 1989
E Blankespoor
The impact of information processing costs on firm disclosure choice: Evidence from the XBRL mandate
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 57 , issue 4 , p. 919 - 967 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,212
RANK
339,352
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies