Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Market Concentration and Audit Quality: Evidence from Auditors of Earliest Announcers

45 Pages Posted: 7 Mar 2025

Joe (Joonghi) Cho

University of Bristol Business School

Abstract

This study examines whether auditors of earliest announcers within a given industry and year provide higher audit quality and how this relationship varies with the level of audit market concentration. Using a large sample of U.S. firms audited by Big 4 auditors between 2003 to 2021, the results show that auditors of earliest announcers are associated with generally lower absolute value of discretionary accruals, thereby providing higher audit quality. Moreover, at moderate audit market concentration (more competition), while the overall audit quality improves, auditors of earliest announcers exhibit reduced audit quality likely due to pressures to report quickly for attracting market attentions. In contrast, when audit market concentration becomes excessive (less competition), the overall audit quality declines, but auditors of earliest announcers provide improved audit quality through enhanced their audit competency and independence. Taken together, this study contributes to understanding the influence of auditing earliest announcers on auditors’ overall audit quality within an industry, highlighting a complex nonlinear pattern in shaping audit quality under the pressures driven by the level of audit competition.

Keywords: audit market concentration, Audit Quality, audit efficiency, auditor competition, announcements

Suggested Citation:

Cho, Joe (Joonghi), Audit Market Concentration and Audit Quality: Evidence from Auditors of Earliest Announcers. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5169193 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5169193
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
394
RANK
841,621
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies