Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fair Value Fiasco by the Top Two Institutional Investors of a Given Public Limited Company in Malawi

Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 5. No. 1 Sep 2024

9 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Brian Phiri Kampanje

Blantyre International University - Accounting and Finance Department; Mergers, Acquisitions and Disposals Journal

Date Written: September 01, 2024

Abstract

It is generally agreed that the adoption of the IFRSs in any given economy enhances the comparability objectives where the financial results of two or more companies can be compared on similar transactions and expected to have the same results. This is particularly important for complex transactions which involve judgments on matters such as impairment of the financial assets. This study evaluated how two top most institutional investors in Malawi had different impairment test results in equity investment in a particular investee. Both institutional investors had adopted IFRS 9-Financial Instruments as valuation method of the equity investment in the separate financial statements and used Level 3 Fair Value Hierarchy. One institutional investor fully impaired the equity investment while the other did not. Both reporting entities did not disclose the underlying principles for the impairment decisions in the investee. What has come out clear is that IFRS 9 excludes impairment of equity investments and IFRS 12-Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities excludes investments accounted for under IFRS 9. This means that reporting entities are not compelled to disclose useful information in the financial statements. The peculiarity of this matter is further enhanced due to the common external audit firm for both institutional investors where full impairment of the equity investment was allowed by one entity and not the other. This stirs debate on the effectiveness of external audit.

Keywords: Level 3, Fair Value, Institutional, Investor, Malawi

Suggested Citation:

Kampanje, Brian Phiri, Fair Value Fiasco by the Top Two Institutional Investors of a Given Public Limited Company in Malawi (September 01, 2024). Mergers, Acquisitions & Disposals Journal Vol. 5. No. 1 Sep 2024, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5170034 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5170034
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Acca
IFRS at a Glance: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
IFRS 13 , Fair Value Measurement Posted: 2022
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Evaluating the Effectiveness of External Auditors for Public Limited Companies in Malawi
SSRN Applied Accounting -Practitioner eJournal , volume 4 , issue 21 Posted: 2012
Brian Kampanje , Phiri
Who Will be Policing the Adoption of IFRSs 10 and 12 on Group Accounts?
SSRN Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate & Organization eJournal , volume 5 Posted: 2012
Bo Nordlund , Johan Lorentzon , Hans Lind
Practice Briefing -A Note on auditing fair value of investment properties
Journal of Property Investment and Finance , volume 40 , issue 1 , p. 108 - 115 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
198
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies