Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Voluntary Disclosure Level on the Cost of Equity Capital in an Emerging Capital Market: the Case of the Amman Stock Exchange 

388 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2025

Ayman E. Haddad

American University of Kuwait

Date Written: February 12, 2005

Abstract

The impact of disclosure level on the cost of equity capital is an important topic in today’s accounting research. This issue is motivated by the economic theory that greater disclosure lowers the information asymmetry and the estimation risk which in turn reduces the cost of equity capital. However, the empirical evidence on the association between disclosure level and the cost of equity capital is limited, focused on developed markets (e.g. USA, Canada) and has reported mixed results (e.g. Botsman, 1997; Richardson and Welker, 2001). In this study, I examine the impact of voluntary disclosure on the cost of equity capital in the Amman Stock Exchange as an example of an emerging capital market by regressing the cost of equity capital on disclosure level and other firm characteristics. My measure of disclosure level is based on the amount of voluntarily disclosed information provided in the 2000 annual reports of a sample of non-financial sector companies listed on the Amman Stock Exchange through developing a self-designed disclosure index relevant to the Jordanian situation. This index is split into three main groups with nine categories. In general, the overall voluntary disclosure is poor, with almost 81% of the 62 items of information included in the disclosure index having a disclosure level below 50%. In addition, it is found that the extent of disclosure varies across the categories of information with, the category of background information being the most reported in corporate annual reports and the projected information category being the least reported. My measure of the cost of equity capital is based on the residual income model employed by Gebhardt et al. (2001). The result shows that on average the rate of return required by investors (the cost of equity capital) for bearing the risk of putting their capital into a business is, on average, 10%.

Finally, the results on the relationship between the disclosure level reported in corporate annual reports and the cost of equity capital provide a significant negative association. The magnitude of the coefficients of disclosure levels suggest that companies included in the sample with most forthcoming corporate financial reporting gaining somewhere between a .067%- .083% reduction in their cost of equity capital compared to the least forthcoming firms. In addition, it has been found that, when compared to other disclosure categories that comprised my disclosure index, the background information category and the market data information category have the most influential impact on explaining the variation in the cost of equity capital for the Jordanian companies listed on the Amman Stock Exchange.

Suggested Citation:

Haddad, Ayman E., The Impact of Voluntary Disclosure Level on the Cost of Equity Capital in an Emerging Capital Market: the Case of the Amman Stock Exchange  (February 12, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5175884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5175884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
592
RANK
880,951
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies