Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Guidance

Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd.

29 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2025

Mei Feng

University of Pittsburgh - Katz Graduate School of Business

Lian Fen Lee

Boston College - Carroll School of Management

Date Written: January 31, 2025

Abstract

Management guidance is a voluntary disclosure tool firms employ to communicate their expectations about future financial performance. When issuing guidance, managers face a series of decisions such as whether to provide guidance at all, the timing of such disclosures, the specific types of information to disclose (e.g., earnings, revenue, cash flow), the level of detail and precision in quantitative forecasts (e.g., point estimates or ranges), and the time horizon covered by the guidance (e.g., quarterly or annual). This chapter discusses general trends in guidance practices and leverages academic research to illuminate the potential benefits and costs associated with various guidance decisions. By understanding these trade-offs, capital market participants can better interpret and assess management guidance and make more informed decisions.

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Mei and Lee, Lian Fen, Management Guidance (January 31, 2025). Forthcoming. Handbook on the Financial Reporting Environment (edited by W. Ge, A. Koester, and S. McVay, 2025), Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5184360 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5184360
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
B Ajinkya , S Bhojraj , P Sengupta
The association between outside directors, institutional investors and the properties of management earnings forecasts
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 343 - 376 Posted: 2005
A Ali , S Klasa , E Yeung
Industry concentration and corporate disclosure policy
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 58 , issue 2-3 , p. 240 - 264 Posted: 2014
D Anantharaman , Y Zhang
Cover me: Managers' responses to changes in analyst coverage in the post-Regulation FD period
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1851 - 1885 Posted: 2011
B Ashwell
How Covid-19 is affecting earnings guidance and dividend payments
IR Magazine Posted: 2020-04-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,170
RANK
371,877
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies