Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Debt Financing on the financial Performance of Selected Private Banks in Ethiopia

13 Pages Posted: 22 May 2025

Kindu Abebe

Independent

Date Written: March 20, 2025

Abstract

The study examined the effect of debt financing on the financial performance of selected private commercial banks in Ethiopia. Multiple linear regression models were utilized, with return on equity as the dependent variable and short-term debt to total assets, total debt to total assets, total debt to total equity and interest coverage ratio as the independent variables to analyse the effect of debt on banks' performance. The study used an explanatory research design with a quantitative research approach. Secondary data for the sample of 5 private commercial banks were collected from the period (2017-2022) using targeted sampling techniques. Both descriptive and inferential statistics were used with the help of Statistical software E view 10 and the results are presented in tables. Based on the random effect regression model output this study concluded that the short-term debt to total asset ratio has a negative related and statistically insignificant effect on return on equity. The total debt to total asset and interest coverage ratio are positively related and statistically significant to return on equity while total debt to total equity has a negative relationship and is statistically significant with return on equity.

Keywords: short-term debt ratio, total debt ratio, total debt to total equity, interest coverage ratio, bank performance

Suggested Citation:

Abebe, Kindu, The Effect of Debt Financing on the financial Performance of Selected Private Banks in Ethiopia (March 20, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5186985 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5186985
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
RANK
753,736
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies