Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Driving Biodiversity Finance Through Enhanced Disclosures and Market-Based Incentives: The Case Of Cali Fund

17 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2025

Saipriya Kamath

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Siva Thambisetty

London School of Economics - Law School

Date Written: March 26, 2025

Abstract

Decision 16/2 laid the foundation for the Cali Fund, a mechanism designed to ensure that users of Digital Sequence Information (DSI) on genetic resources contribute to a global benefit-sharing system. This document responds to notification 114 from the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity, outlining additional modalities for discussion. The focus of this document is on outlining possibility of requesting additional disclosures, and on incentives to encourage contributions to the Cali fund. 

Key discussion points include:

Dr. Saipriya Kamath developed the Sales-based Tiered Approach central to the LSE Model and authored much of this paper on disclosure and incentives further refining the LSE Model. Dr. Thambisetty contributed to the disclosure model’s ideation, structure, and communication.

Keywords: Digital Sequence Information, COP16, Biodiversity, Pharmaceutical Funding, Profits, Revenues, DSI, Incentives, Sustainability finance, executive compensation, investor activism

Funder Statement

This submission is made by researchers from the LSE working under the Ocean Biodiversity Collective, an LSE funded Knowledge Exchange and Impact Initiative.

Suggested Citation:

Kamath, Saipriya and Thambisetty, Siva, Driving Biodiversity Finance Through Enhanced Disclosures and Market-Based Incentives: The Case Of Cali Fund (March 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5194890 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5194890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
P Bonetti , C Leuz , G Michelon
Internalizing externalities through public pressure: Transparency regulation for fracking, drilling activity and water quality (No. w30842) Posted: 2023
S Tomar
Greenhouse gas disclosure and emissions benchmarking
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 61 , issue 2 , p. 451 - 492 Posted: 2023
T Bourveau , X Gao , R Li , F S Zhou
Comply-or-explain regulation and investor protection
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2025
V Chhaochharia , A Kumar , A Niessen-Ruenzi
Local investors and corporate governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 42 - 67 Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
RANK
741,983
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Climate Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies