Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Deep-Learning Earnings

66 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2025 Last revised: 2 Apr 2025

Yuqiao Fang

Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) - Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance (SAIF)

Feng Li

Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, Shanghai Jiaotong University

Date Written: March 28, 2025

Abstract

We employ a deep learning framework, the Kolmogorov-Arnold Neural Network, to generate estimates of "permanent earnings" and evaluate their incremental value relative to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) earnings in the context of equity valuation. Our model incorporates 58 detailed items from trailing-twelve-month income and cash flow statements as input features and uses the average of the operating cash flows over the past 8 quarters and the next 12 quarters as the outcome variable. The underlying rationale is that a sophisticated nonlinear combination of these 58 financial items, which maps to long-term cash flows, effectively captures the essence of "permanent earnings." We demonstrate that deep-learning earnings are more persistent, less volatile, and less affected by the conservatism and earnings management biases inherent in GAAP earnings. Priceto-earnings ratios based on deep-learning earnings are also more consistent across firms within the same industry. Furthermore, deep-learning earnings provide incremental explanatory power beyond GAAP earnings in predicting future cash flows and can forecast future stock returns, even after controlling for the five factors identified by Fama and French (2015). Collectively, our results suggest that deep-learning earnings effectively capture recurring or "permanent earnings."

Keywords: Kolmogorov-Arnold Neural Networks, earnings estimates, permanent earnings, equity valuation

Suggested Citation:

Fang, Yuqiao and Li, Feng, Deep-Learning Earnings (March 28, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5196742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5196742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Aicpa
Objectives of Financial Statements Posted: 1973
Ray Ball , Philip Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting income numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Ray Ball , Valeri V Nikolaev
On earnings and cash flows as predictors of future cash flows
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 73 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2022
Yang Bao , Bin Ke , Bin Li , Y Julia Yu , Jue Zhang
Detecting accounting fraud in publicly traded u.s. firms using a machine learning approach
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 58 , issue 1 , p. 199 - 235 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
193
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,081
RANK
359,301
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies