Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Review of Non-GAAP Reporting: Recommendations for Effective Implementation of Management-defined Performance Measures in Korea

72 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025 Last revised: 28 Apr 2025

Seul Gi Oh

Yonsei University

Hyungjin Cho

Korea Accounting Institute; Korea Accounting Research Institute

Haewon Moon

Korea Accounting Institute

Date Written: February 03, 2025

Abstract

Recently introduced IFRS 18 contains the management-defined performance measures (MPMs). This paper aims to support the successful implementation of MPMs in the Korean capital market. To achieve the goal, this paper starts with a review of academic literature on non-GAAP measures because MPMs could be a subset of non-GAAP measures. Then, it shows initial empirical evidence that the use of non-GAAP measures could enhance the value relevance of earnings for Korean firms. This paper concludes with several recommendations yielded from the literature review and empirical results. 1 The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors. Official positions of the Korea Accounting Institute and Korea Accounting Standard Board are reached only after extensive due process and deliberations.

Keywords: Non-GAAP, MPM, IFRS 18

Suggested Citation:

Oh, Seul Gi and Cho, Hyungjin and Moon, Haewon, A Review of Non-GAAP Reporting: Recommendations for Effective Implementation of Management-defined Performance Measures in Korea (February 03, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5202889 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5202889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
85 References
A Abdel-Meguid , J N Jennings , K J Olsen , M T Soliman
The impact of the CEO's personal narcissism on non-GAAP earnings
The Accounting Review , volume 96 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 25 Posted: 2021
N Y An , S Kwon , J Jang
Characteristics of companies reporting adjusted operating income after adoption of K-IFRS
Korean Accounting Journal , volume 23 , issue 6 , p. 89 - 118 Posted: 2014
J A Ashby , J A Chyz , L A Myers , B C Whipple
Non-GAAP earnings and definite-lived long-term asset allocations in mergers and acquisitions
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2024
F Aubert , G Grudnitski
The role of reconciliation quality in limiting mispricing of non-GAAP earnings announcements by EURO STOXX firms
Advances in Accounting , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 154 - 167 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
269
RANK
785,592
85 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies