Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Innovations and Companies' Performance During Pandemics

The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTEdinburgh’ 2025), 12-13 April 2025, Edinburgh, United Kingdom

5 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2025 Last revised: 15 Jun 2025

Fatemeh Saeedi

University of Sharjah

Khulood Abduur Rahman

University of Sharjah

Shama Abdalla

University of Sharjah

Magdi El Bannany

Umm Al Quwain University; Ain Shams University

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of accounting innovations on companies' performance during the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Arab Emirates. This research used the deductive approach, with primary data collected through surveys. The results show a positive relationship between Lean Accounting and firms' financial and operational performance during the pandemic. In addition, the result indicates that the impact of lean accounting on firms' operational performance is subject to firm size. This paper increases our understanding of how lean accounting can be a powerful tool in navigating the challenges of a pandemic.

Keywords: Lean accounting, Company performance, Pandemics JEL codes -M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Saeedi, Fatemeh and Abduur Rahman, Khulood and Abdalla, Shama and El Bannany, Magdi and Elkelish, Walaa, Accounting Innovations and Companies' Performance During Pandemics (April 01, 2025). The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTEdinburgh’ 2025), 12-13 April 2025, Edinburgh, United Kingdom, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5207206 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5207206
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
N Alsuwaidi , A Houti , W W Elkelish , M El-Bannany
The Impact of Pandemics on External Audit Practices
Asian Journal of Business and Accounting , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 144 Posted: 2024
B Baggaley , B H Maskell
Value stream management for lean companies, Part II
Journal of Cost Management , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 24 - 30 Posted: 2003
R H Chenhall
Integrative strategic performance measurement systems, strategic alignment of manufacturing, learning, and strategic outcomes: an exploratory study
Accounting, organizations and society , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 395 - 422 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies