Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pricing and Persistence of Discretionary Accruals in the Post-SOX Era: U.S. Evidence

International Journal of Auditing and Accounting Studies, 7(2). pp. 153-176. 

31 Pages Posted: 1 May 2025 Last revised: 14 Oct 2025

Rajat Bhandari

Harrisburg University of Science and Technology

Shraddha Bhandari

Independent

Date Written: March 18, 2025

Abstract

This study focuses on two related research questions. First, using Sloan's (1996) model, we investigate the effect of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on the persistence of accruals. Specifically, we examine whether SOX has improved the persistence of accruals. Second, we assess the impact of SOX on the pricing of discretionary accruals, investigating whether the overpricing of discretionary accruals has decreased in the post-SOX period. The post-SOX accounting literature suggests that SOX acts as a deterrent to accrual management. An increased deterrent to accrual management is likely to improve the persistence of accruals and should also reduce the overpricing of discretionary accruals. Consistent with our expectations, we find that SOX has improved the persistence of accruals and has decreased the overpricing of discretionary accruals. Our findings suggest a key benefit of SOX, its role in improving persistence of accrual and reducing the mispricing of discretionary accruals, thereby enhancing both financial reporting reliability and market efficiency. These results have important implications for regulators, standard setters, auditors, audit committees and financial statement users by offering evidence that SOX delivers meaningful benefits that may offset its widely debated costs. Link: https://www.arfjournals.com/image/catalog/Journals%20Papers/IJAAS/2025/No%202%20(2025)/2_Rajat%20Bhandari.pdf

Keywords: Pricing of Accruals, Persistence of Accruals, Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Discretionary Accruals, Accruals

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

Ethics Approval

This study did not involve any experiments with human participants or animals and therefore did not require ethical approval.

Funder Statement

This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, K22

Suggested Citation:

Bhandari, Rajat and Bhandari, Shraddha, Pricing and Persistence of Discretionary Accruals in the Post-SOX Era: U.S. Evidence (March 18, 2025).

International Journal of Auditing and Accounting Studies, 7(2). pp. 153-176. 

, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5214245 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5214245
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Abad , M F Cutillas-Gomariz , J P Sánchez-Ballesta , J Yagüe
Real earnings management and information asymmetry in the equity market
European Accounting Review , volume 27 , issue 2 , p. 209 - 235 Posted: 2018
A S Abdelwahed , A A Abu-Musa , H Moubarak , H A Badawy
The adoption of big data analytics in the external auditing: bibliometric and content analyses
International Journal of Auditing and Accounting Studies , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 49 - 85 Posted: 2023
E F Attia , T H Ismail , M Mehafdi
Impact of board of directors attributes on realbased earnings management: further evidence from Egypt
Future Business Journal , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
E Bartov , F A Gul , J S Tsui
Discretionary-accruals models and audit qualifications
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 452 Posted: 2000
Load more
1 Citations
Rajat Bhandari
Artificial intelligence in healthcare analytics
EDPACS , p. 1 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
317
1 Citations
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies