Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Audit Partner-Client Proximity Enhance Audit Efficiency? Evidence from a Natural Experiment

66 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2025 Last revised: 18 Jul 2025

Naman Desai

University of Maryland - Robert H. Smith School of Business

Gopal V. Krishnan

Bentley University

Siddharth Purohit

University College Dublin (UCD) - UCD School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 16, 2025

Abstract

Using the COVID-19 pandemic and enforcement of associated lockdowns in India as a natural experiment, we employ a difference-in-differences research design and examine how audit partner-client proximity impacts audit report lag (ARL), a measure of audit efficiency. Although lockdowns restricted vehicular travel, except for essential workers, there were fewer restrictions on pedestrians. We find that when the partner and client are geographically proximate, ARL is lower by about 10 to 12 days during the first wave of COVID-19. We do not find a significant relation between ARL and audit firm-client proximity. Further, audit efficiency gains are stronger when clients are in essential industries or important to the audit firm, or when audit firm tenure is longer or audit partners are industry-experts. Our findings are robust to fixed effects for audit partners, postal codes, and client firms. ARL is also lower when a co-partner from the same audit firm resides near the client firm. Additionally, partner-client proximity seems relatively immaterial in audits by Big 4 firms or audit firms with multiple offices, presumably because of technological sophistication. Finally, there is some evidence of higher audit quality for local partners who are industry experts or have a longer association with their clients.

Keywords: audit partner, Audit Report Lag, COVID-19, Audit quality, India

Suggested Citation:

Desai, Naman and Krishnan, Gopal and Purohit, Siddharth, Does Audit Partner-Client Proximity Enhance Audit Efficiency? Evidence from a Natural Experiment (July 16, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5215249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5215249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
95 References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak , A Weisbarth
An international perspective on audit report lag: A synthesis of the literature and opportunities for future research
International Journal of Auditing , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 100 - 127 Posted: 2017
S Agarwal , R Hauswald
Distance and private information in lending
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 2757 - 2788 Posted: 2010
C T Alberti , J C Thibodeau , H F Zhou
Audit Firm Culture Revealed: Insights from Audit Engagement Leaders' Responses to Challenges during COVID-19
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2022
A W Alford , J J Jones , M E Zmijewski
Extensions and violations of the statutory SEC Form 10-K filing requirements
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 17 , issue 1-2 , p. 229 - 254 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
371
RANK
672,864
95 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies