Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Enhancing Lending Decisions and Risk Management in Banking Through Artificial Intelligence

11 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Soumya K G

CMS Business School, JAIN Deemed to be University

Suriya SV

CMS Business School, JAIN Deemed to be University

Vinoth S

CMS Business School

Gopalakrishnan C

Jain Deemed To Be University

Date Written: April 14, 2025

Abstract

Integration of artificial intelligence in banking is revolutionizing credit risk assessment and lending. This study will look at the impact of adopting AI on improving credit risk accuracy and the time taken for loan approvals. The results show that while AI adoption influences credit risk assessment, its direct impact remains weak, suggesting that other factors contribute substantially to improvements in accuracy. Similarly, the adoption of AI has little influence on the reduction of the time needed for loan processing, pointing out that traditional processes and other operational elements are still relevant. On the other hand, there is a strong positive correlation between the adoption of AI and improved credit risk assessment, underlining the potential of AI in fine-tuning decision-making over time. Sentiment analysis showed that the overall view toward AI in lending is very positive, with the largest feedback representing confidence in benefits. The leading insights obtained have shown that although AI gives efficiency to financial services, its full potential has yet to be realized, considering the credit assessment and speed required in loan approvals; hence, future research needs to investigate the other factors that will serve in optimizing AI-driven financial decision-making and risk assessment strategies.

Keywords: Jain Deemed-to-be University, Bengaluru, India. Ph: 9965658141, ORCID: 0000-0002-1190-6989 Artificial Intelligence in Banking, Credit Risk Evaluation, Loan Processing Efficiency, AI Adoption Impact, and Financial Decision Making, Artificial Intelligence in Banking, Credit Risk Evaluation, , Loan Processing Efficiency, AI Adoption Impact, Financial Decision Making

Suggested Citation:

K G, Soumya and SV, Suriya and S, Vinoth and C, Gopalakrishnan, Enhancing Lending Decisions and Risk Management in Banking Through Artificial Intelligence (April 14, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5216138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5216138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
R Bevz , O Domanska
Transforming Credit Risk Management: The Impact Of AI And ML. Avenga Magazine Posted: 2024
T E Edunjobi , O A Odejide
Theoretical frameworks in AI for credit risk assessment: Towards banking efficiency and accuracy
International Journal of Scientific Research Updates , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 92 - 102 Posted: 2024
S Sharma , M Ahuja
Algorithmic Brilliance: Unveiling the Power of AI in Credit Evaluation
BankQuest , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2024-01
AI in the banking market: Growth projections and trends Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
227
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies