Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Stimulators of Point of Sale Usage Behaviour: Analysis of Shopping Malls' Patrons in South East of Nigeria

14 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

John Anetoh

CHUKWUEMEKA ODUMEGWU OJUKWU UNIVERSITY

Date Written: January 04, 2025

Abstract

This paper examined the stimulators of point of sale usage behaviour among the patrons of the selected shopping malls in south eastern part of Nigeria. The study specifically ascertained the enablers of POS usage behaviour and investigated the extent the identified stimulators affect the POS usage behavior. The research adopted a positivist ontology and also a descriptive research design using the quantitative research approach in which data were generated using the research instrument. The population of the study comprised the patrons of the shopping malls under review. The sample size was 384 respondents and a convenient sampling strategy was adopted for the study. The data were sourced while the formulated hypotheses were tested using partial least square structural equation modeling at 5% level of significance. The findings revealed that perceived usefulness of POS had a significant positive effect on point of sale usage behaviour among shopping mall patrons in south east of Nigeria. The study found that perceived ease of use had a significant positive effect on POS usage behaviour among shopping mall patrons in south east of Nigeria. The findings showed that social influence had a significant positive effect on point of sale usage behaviour among shopping mall patrons in south east of Nigeria. The study found that trust in POS had a significant positive effect on POS usage behaviour among shopping mall patrons in south east of Nigeria. Based on the findings; the researchers recommended that among others that shopping mall patrons' usage of point of sale can be sustained with improvements in perceived performance of POS, improvement in POS perceived ease of use and improvement in social influence. It was also recommended that the usage of POS can be improved if trust in the point of sale technology is sustained by shopping mall patrons in south east of Nigeria.

Keywords: Stimulators, POS, Analysis, Shopping Malls Patrons, South Eastern Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Anetoh, John, Stimulators of Point of Sale Usage Behaviour: Analysis of Shopping Malls' Patrons in South East of Nigeria (January 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5219000 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5219000
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
References
K K Wong
Partial least squares structural equation modeling techniques using smartpls
Marketing Bulletin , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 32 Posted: 2013
M Y Wu , P Y Yu , Y C Weng
A study on user behaviour for I pass by UTAUT: Using Taiwan\'s MRT as an example
Asia Pacific Management Review , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 92 - 111 Posted: 2012
F Zehra , F S Khan , S S Mazhar , N Akhlaque , E Haque
Exploring consumer preferences and behaviour toward digital payment gateways in India
International Journal of Experimental Research and Review (IJERR) , volume 41 , p. 158 - 167 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
170
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Managerial Marketing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies