Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Innovations and Corporate Performance

The Smart Solutions for Modern Design, Business, and Computer Innovations Conference (OCMT’2025), Oman College of Management and Technology (OCMT), Muscat, Oman, April 16-17, 2025 

5 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2025 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Shamma Harib

University of Sharjah

Jawaher Hamed

University of Sharjah

Sara Alshamsi

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Date Written: April 01, 2025

Abstract

The primary purpose of this paper is to investigate the relationships between management accounting innovations, corporate sustainability, and National In-country Value (ICV) certification in the United Arab Emirates. This study uses a quantitative survey instrument for data collection. The findings in this paper highlight a significant positive relationship between management accounting innovations such as activity-based costing (ABC) and Balanced Scorecard (BS) and corporate sustainability. ICV acts as a vital catalyst for management accounting innovation. This paper helps understand the importance of management accounting innovation, corporate sustainability, and ICV for policy improvements.

Keywords: Management Accounting, Innovations, Corporate Performance JEL codes -M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Harib, Shamma and Hamed, Jawaher and Alshamsi, Sara and Elkelish, Walaa, Management Accounting Innovations and Corporate Performance (April 01, 2025). The Smart Solutions for Modern Design, Business, and Computer Innovations Conference (OCMT’2025), Oman College of Management and Technology (OCMT), Muscat, Oman, April 16-17, 2025 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5221138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5221138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
N Abdusalomova
Problems Of Management Accounting And Ways To Solve Them
International Finance and Accounting , volume 1 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2019
D Agustia , T Sawarjuwono , W Dianawati
The mediating effect of environmental management accounting on the green innovation-firm value relationship
International Journal of Energy Economics and Policy , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 299 - 306 Posted: 2019
Noura Almarzooqi , Muzhada Shah , Aisha Mohammed , Walaa Elkelish , Aziz Jaafar , Magdi El-Bannany
The Determinants of Customer Profitability Analysis During the COVID-19 Crisis
The International Conference on Business and Digital Technology (ICBDT2024) Posted: 2024
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
29
ABSTRACT VIEWS
274
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies