Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Joint Effect of Earnings Management and Efficiency of Cash Management on Firms' Financial Well-being: Evidence from Egypt

28 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Mohamed Hessian

Ain Shams University - Faculty of Business

Date Written: December 09, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-This study investigates the association between earnings management (EM) and the efficiency of cash management (ECM) as well as the extent to which this relationship affects a firm's financial well-being (FWB). Design/methodology/approach-Using fixed-effects models and quarterly financial statements of 178 non-financial firms, this study analyses 3,376 firmquarter observations listed on the Egyptian stock market from 2005 to 2019. Findings-The empirical findings suggest that optimal cash holdings and cash holding excess increase with lower real earnings management (REM) of operating activities or higher accrual earnings management (AEM). This relationship positively impacts firms' FWB but is negatively influenced by REM. Originality/value: This study examines the impact of sales manipulation and overproduction on cash holdings. This is also the first study to explore how managerial discretion over both earnings and excess cash holdings influences a firm's FWB. This study provides new empirical evidence of the joint effects of managerial opportunism in earnings and cash management on a firm's financial health.

Keywords: Accrual earnings management, cash holding excess, real earnings management, optimal cash holdings, financial well-being

Suggested Citation:

Hessian, Mohamed, The Joint Effect of Earnings Management and Efficiency of Cash Management on Firms' Financial Well-being: Evidence from Egypt (December 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5224347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5224347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
A Abdel-Meguid
Corporate governance in Egypt: The landscape, the research, and future directions , volume 18 , p. 296 - 306 Posted: 2021
M M A Afifa , I H Saleh , F F Haniah
Does earnings management mediate the relationship between audit quality and company performance? Evidence from Jordan
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 747 - 774 Posted: 2021
M Arellano , S Bond
Some tests of specification for panel data: Monte Carlo evidence and an application to employment equations
Review of Economic Studies , volume 58 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 297 Posted: 1991
E F Attia , S Yassen , A Chafai , A Qotb
The impact of board gender diversity on the accrual/real earnings management practice: evidence from an emerging market
Future Business Journal , volume 10 , issue 1 Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
RANK
766,148
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies