Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Controls and Financial Reporting Accuracy in Hotels: The Role of Management Commitment and Employee Training

21 Pages Posted: 7 May 2025

Christian Donkor

University of Education, Winneba

Date Written: January 15, 2025

Abstract

This study examines the mediating role of management commitment and employee training in the relationship between internal control systems and financial reporting accuracy in the Ghanaian hotel sector. The study uses an exploratory quantitative research design and structured questionnaires to capture data from 402 employees in the hotels in the Sekondi-Takoradi area. Based on the PLS-SEM analysis, the study found a positive relationship between internal control systems and the accuracy of financial reporting, where management commitment acts as a mediator. However, employee training was found not to be a significant mediating factor in the relationship. These results show the necessity of top management's engagement in developing and sustaining effective internal control systems for enhancing financial reporting and reliability in the hospitality sector. The study presents practical implications for policy and practice, where hotel managers are encouraged to pay attention to internal controls and management's commitment to improve their employees' training to correct reporting of financial statements. Several practical implications are outlined for the hotel managers as well as the regulatory bodies, especially the provision of increased management, training, and compliance checks to enhance internal control mechanisms. This research advances the understanding of corporate governance in hotels and the context of developing countries. Future research should explore the role of digital accounting systems and AI-driven financial controls in improving financial reporting accuracy.

Keywords: Internal Controls, Financial Reporting Accuracy, Management Commitment, Employee Training

Suggested Citation:

Donkor, Christian, Internal Controls and Financial Reporting Accuracy in Hotels: The Role of Management Commitment and Employee Training (January 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5228884 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5228884
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
I A Abed , N Hussin , H Haddad , T H Almubaydeen , M A Ali
Creative accounting determination and financial reporting quality: the integration of transparency and disclosure
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
I S K Acquah , D Essel , C Baah , Y Agyabeng-Mensah , E Afum
Investigating the efficacy of isomorphic pressures on the adoption of green manufacturing practices and its influence on organizational legitimacy and financial performance
Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , volume 32 , issue 7 , p. 1399 - 1420 Posted: 2021
O S Ajao , A O Oluwadamilola
Internal control systems and quality of financial reporting in insurance industry in Nigeria
Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 8 , issue 5 , p. 212 - 220 Posted: 2020
H Aksom , I Tymchenko
How institutional theories explain and fail to explain organizations
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 33 , issue 7 , p. 1223 - 1252 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
212
RANK
856,872
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies