Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

On the Key Aspects of the Formation of Information Support for Managing the Company's Capital Structure

4 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2025

Anna Vekshina

Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO)

Date Written: April 09, 2025

Abstract

The article indicates that economic science has not developed a certain unified mechanism for determining the optimal capital structure, and the choice of sources of financing is influenced by such factors as the economic policy pursued by the state and the financial behavior of owners that are difficult to predict in the long term. This significantly complicates the implementation of measures to improve the company's financial policy. In addition, it is noted how, by modifying the capital structure, a company is able to inform the market about its financial condition.

Keywords: Capital Structure, Loan and Own Funds, Enterprise Value, Information Asymmetry

Suggested Citation:

Vekshina, Anna,

On the Key Aspects of the Formation of Information Support for Managing the Company's Capital Structure

(April 09, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5231835 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5231835
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
3 References
V G Kogdenko , M V Mel'nik , I L Bykovnikov
Short-term and long-term financial policy Posted: 2016
E Brigham , P Daves
Intermediate Financial Management. Cengage Learning Posted: 2006
Interest rates on credit and deposit operations of credit institutions in rubles. Bank of Russia Posted: 2025-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
178
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies