Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Information Systems and Business Capabilities’ Role Impacting the Viet Nam-Listed Corporates’ Resilience: The Smart-PLS SEM Approach

Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, 2025[10.1108/JAOC-07-2024-0250]

Posted: 19 May 2025 Last revised: 5 May 2025

Doan Van Dinh

Industrial University of Ho Chi Minh City

Date Written: April 11, 2025

Abstract

Purpose

This study investigates the impact of accounting information systems (AISs) on Viet Nam-listed companies’ resilience and the role of business capabilities as an intermediary in influencing companies’ resilience and AISs. This study aims to focus on the potential effects of improving predictability, adaptability, responsibility, risk management ability, regeneration ability, development ability, leadership and learning ability on companies’ resilience through innovation in technological processes, upgrading AISs and enhancing business capabilities.

Design/methodology/approach

This study utilized institutional and resource-based theories to formulate hypotheses and applied SMART-PLS structural equation modeling to assess the significance of the AIS, which is related to human resource competency (AISH), business capabilities (BC), information technology (IT), the complementary-based information systems (CBIS) and companies’ resilience (CR). Data were gathered from 411 relevant survey respondents of companies listed on the Stock Exchange in Viet Nam using an online survey methodology.

Findings

The findings reveal that the factors associated with the variables AISH, CBIS and IT explain 46.1% of the impact on a company’s CR, as indicated by an R-squared. In addition, the results suggest a substantial impact of the independent variables CBIS, AISH, IT and BC on the dependent variable CR, with close correlations of 50%, 47.5%, 55.8% and 62.6%, respectively.

Originality/value

The findings of this study are significant for corporate administrators and decision-makers. For corporate administrators, the research highlights the value of investing in AISs to strengthen the role of business continuity in enhancing the company’s resilience. For policymakers, the study underscores the importance of fostering a supportive climate for AISs implementation and bolstering business continuity practices within companies.

Keywords: Accounting information systems, , Business capability, Companies’ resilience, Accounting and politics, Accounting change

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Van Dinh, Doan, Accounting Information Systems and Business Capabilities’ Role Impacting the Viet Nam-Listed Corporates’ Resilience: The Smart-PLS SEM Approach (April 11, 2025). Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, 2025[10.1108/JAOC-07-2024-0250], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5241093
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
104
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies