Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Response to Real Losses Versus Intangibles-Driven Losses

53 Pages Posted: 6 May 2025

Jobaer Hossain

University of Memphis

Jahedul Bhuiyan

University of Texas at El Paso

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Abstract

Understanding auditors’ reaction to losses resulting from immediate expensing of intangible investments (i.e., intangibles-driven losses or GAAP losses) and losses resulting from genuine business performance shortfalls (i.e., real losses) is important to policymakers, practitioners, and academics. Our study provides evidence of such auditors’ responses by examining the association between audit fees and GAAP losses/Real losses. Our results indicate that GAAP losses are positively associated with audit fees. We also find that non-Big 4 audit firms charge higher audit fees than Big 4 auditors. Additionally, our results show that audit fees are higher for firms reporting GAAP losses and having a higher level of earnings management. When examining GAAP/Real loss persistence, we find that auditors charge higher audit fees for all GAAP loss and real loss persistence groups. However, auditors charge more audit fees for firms with longer GAAP loss persistence while charging lower fees for firms with seven or more years of real losses. Additional tests show the levels of research and development expenditures and selling, general and administrative expenses strengthen the association between GAAP losses and audit fees. Our results provide preliminary evidence that intangibles-driven losses are relevant to audit risk assessment and thus audit pricing decisions.

Keywords: GAAP losses, real losses, intangibles-driven losses, audit fees, auditor response

Suggested Citation:

Hossain, Jobaer and Bhuiyan, Jahedul and Dao, Mai, Auditor Response to Real Losses Versus Intangibles-Driven Losses. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5243153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5243153
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
D Aboody , B Lev
Information asymmetry, R&D, and insider gains
The Journal of Finance , volume 55 , issue 6 , p. 2747 - 2766 Posted: 2000
H Akono , H Choi , K E Karim
Convertible debt usage and the pricing of audit services
Accounting Horizons , volume 36 , issue 3 , p. 21 - 43 Posted: 2022
K Amin , C Kim , Z Yang , F Ye
Politically connected boards and audit pricing: U.S. Evidence. Accounting Horizons , volume 35 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2021
M Azizkhani , S Hossain , M Nguyen
Effects of audit committee chair characteristics on auditor choice, audit fee and audit quality
Accounting & Finance , volume 63 , issue 3 , p. 3675 - 3707 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies