Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Employee Incentives and Cost Accuracy: Exploring the Effects of Piece Rate System Design on Cost Driver Rate Calculations

55 Pages Posted: 13 May 2025

Allan Hansen

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Operations Management

Ivar M. Friis

Independent

Tamás S. Vámosi

Copenhagen Business School - Department of Operations Management

Abstract

When the cost accounting literature demonstrates that the accuracy of unit cost calculations depends not only on the design of cost accounting systems but also on the design of incentive systems, it taps into two major debates in management accounting research: the persistent tension between decision-making and incentives, and the interdependencies between management control systems—here, cost accounting and incentive systems. However, prior literature on how incentive systems affect cost accuracy has primarily focused on how divisional managers’ incentives distort cost calculations—either upward or downward—while largely overlooking the influence of other control systems that incentivize other employee groups. This study addresses this gap through an in-depth single case study of a piece-rate system for shop floor workers, investigating how its design undermined component cost accuracy through two dysfunctional incentives: misclassification and distorted effort allocation—resulting in over- and under-costing, respectively. The findings contribute in three ways. First, the study extends our understanding of the sources of cost inaccuracy. Second, it highlights the complexity and dynamics of incentive effects. Third, it contributes to the management control literature by discussing interdependencies between control systems and underscores the value of granular analyses—enabled by in-depth case studies—in explaining how and why such interdependencies arise.

Keywords: Cost accounting, incentive systems, piece-rate systems, accuracy, dysfunctional consequences

Suggested Citation:

Hansen, Allan and Friis, Ivar M. and Vámosi, Tamás S., Employee Incentives and Cost Accuracy: Exploring the Effects of Piece Rate System Design on Cost Driver Rate Calculations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5252147 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5252147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
J Abarbanell , B Bushee
Fundamental analysis, future earnings and stock prices
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 35 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 1997
D S Bedford
Conceptual and empirical issues in understanding management control combinations
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 86 Posted: 2020
A Brüggen , R Krishnan , K L Sedatole
Drivers and consequences of short-term production decisions: Evidence from the auto industry
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 28 , issue 1 , p. 83 - 123 Posted: 2011
E Brynjolfsson , P Milgrom , R Gibbons , J Roberts
The handbook of organizational economics (Course Book) Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
236
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies