Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating European XBRL Filings: Hit or Miss?

56 Pages Posted: 19 May 2025

Veronika Heichl

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Simon Hirsch

Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Goran Zvekan

Friedrich Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg

Date Written: May 13, 2025

Abstract

Purpose


The European Union has mandated that as of 1 January 2020, listed companies must file consolidated financial statements in the European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) using eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL). This study assesses the effectiveness of Directive 2019/815, focusing on its objectives related to transparency, comparability, accessibility, and ease of analysis of ESEF filings.

 

Design/methodology/approach

The study employs ESEF filings from STOXX Europe 600 companies for the fiscal years 2021 and 2022. The transparency and comparability of statements are evaluated using Kruskal–Wallis tests to investigate variations by country, industry, and company size, followed by Dunn’s tests to identify variation drivers. The distribution and use of extensions are analysed through automated text processing to assess accessibility and ease of analysis.

 

Findings

Our findings suggest that the transparency and comparability of ESEF filings are constrained by significant variations. Moreover, crucial financial information remains partially inaccessible due to inconsistent application. We identify factors hindering accessibility and ease of analysis of ESEF filings, including the misuse of ESEF elements as extensions, the (dis)aggregation of elements, and the incorporation of domestic languages.

 

Originality/value

The study offers timely empirical evidence regarding the effectiveness of the ESEF directive in harmonising financial reporting. It can be reasonably concluded that the directive’s effectiveness is limited. ESEF presents challenges for stakeholders, particularly in terms of transparency, comparability, accessibility, and ease of analysis of reports. Regulators need to address these issues and potentially make adjustments to ensure harmonisation.

Keywords: XBRL, ESEF, Financial Reporting, Extensions

Suggested Citation:

Heichl, Veronika and Hirsch, Simon and Zvekan, Goran, Investigating European XBRL Filings: Hit or Miss? (May 13, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5255213 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5255213
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
V V Acharya , S Ryan
Banks' Financial Reporting and Financial System Stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
K Ahmed , J Courtis
Associations between Corporate Characteristics and Disclosure Levels in Annual Reports: A Meta-Analysis
The British Accounting Review , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 35 - 61 Posted: 1999
H Alkayed , S Zighan , M Qabajeh , M I Almaharmeh
The role of XBRL adoption on enhancing transparency of information disclosure: A case study of Jordanian financial companies
Cogent Business & Management , volume 10 , issue 3 Posted: 2023
F Avallone , P Ramassa , E Roncagliolo , D Mancini , R P Dameri , & E Bonollo
The Pros and Cons of XBRL Adoption in Italy: A Field Study
Lecture Notes in Information Systems and Organisation. Strengthening Information and Control Systems , volume 14 , p. 157 - 170 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
RANK
753,736
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies