Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relationship between National Culture and Stock Market Development in the United Kingdom

International Journal of Business Research, Volume 12, Number 4

6 Pages Posted: 20 May 2025 Last revised: 20 May 2025

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

John Pointon

University of Plymouth

Date Written: November 16, 2012

Abstract

This paper investigates the relationship between culture values and stock market development in the United Kingdom. Monthly secondary data was gathered to represent both cultural values (Hofstede, 1980), and stock market development (Demirguc-Kunt and Levine, 1995) for the time period 1990-2004. Empirical results revealed a relationship between stock market development and cultural values. More specifically, the multi-dimensional Structural Equation Model (SEM) showed that there is a positive relationship between Power Distance and stock market size. In addition, a significant positive relationship is detected between Individuality and stock market activity. This paper highlights the influence of cultural values on the stock market development on a continuous scale, which encourages policy makers, regulators, and international investors to have a more comprehensive approach in dealing with reform programs in the United Kingdom as well as other countries worldwide.

Keywords: stock market developement, cultural values, structural equation model

Suggested Citation:

Elkelish, Walaa and Pointon, John, The Relationship between National Culture and Stock Market Development in the United Kingdom (November 16, 2012). International Journal of Business Research, Volume 12, Number 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
20
ABSTRACT VIEWS
192
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies