Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring Big Data Analytics Adoption in External Auditing

The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTCardiff’ 2025), Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University, UK, July 23-24, 2025 

7 Pages Posted: 1 Jun 2025 Last revised: 15 Jun 2025

Mohammad Ghazal

University of Sharjah

Majed Ahmed

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Faker Al Gharaibeh

University of Sharjah

Date Written: May 16, 2025

Abstract

This paper assesses the relationships between external audit and big data analytics (BDA) during the COVID-19 crisis in the United Arab Emirates emerging market. This exploratory paper uses semi-structured interviews to collect the study data set. The content analysis shows that big data analytics enhances external auditors' performance in terms of profitability and efficiency during the COVID-19 crisis. However, the pandemic has a mixed impact on BDA adoption. This paper provides useful guidelines for external auditors and regulators to improve the profession during crises.

Keywords: Big data analytics, Auditing, COVID-19 JEL classification -M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ghazal, Mohammad and Ahmed, Majed and Elkelish, Walaa and Al Gharaibeh, Faker, Exploring Big Data Analytics Adoption in External Auditing (May 16, 2025). The International Conference on Business and Technology (ICBTCardiff’ 2025), Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University, UK, July 23-24, 2025 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5256780 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5256780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
K Albitar , A M Gerged , H Kikhia , K Hussainey
Auditing in times of social distancing: the effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality
International Journal of Accounting & Information Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 169 - 178 Posted: 2020
Noura Almarzooqi , Muzhada Shah , Aisha Mohammed , Walaa Elkelish , Aziz Jaafar , Magdi El-Bannany
The Determinants of Customer Profitability Analysis During the COVID-19 Crisis
The International Conference on Business and Digital Technology (ICBDT2024) Posted: 2024
M Alsahli , H Kandeh
Effect of Big Data Analytics on Audit: An exploratory qualitative study of data analytics on auditors' skills and competence, perception of professional judgment, audit efficiency, and audit quality
UMEA School of Business, Economics and Statistics Posted: 2020-10
K Alshehhi , J Alteniji , S Alshamsi , W W Elkelish , I H Iwhish
The extent of awareness of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in the emerging market of the United Arab Emirates
International Journal of Economics and Business Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 210 - 228 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
575
RANK
872,691
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies