Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Capital Measurement: Earnings Theory of Capitalization Approach

5 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2025

Avinash Sinha

Birla Institute of Technology

Date Written: March 02, 2023

Abstract

Human Capital/Asset assessment has always been a point of interest in research. Its estimation leads to evaluate the overall capitalization of a firm, which in turn, is important for the calculation of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Weighted average cost of capital is used to calculate the economic value added of the firm, EVA measures the increase/decrease in the shareholders fund. Therefore, human capital assessment goes far into assessing financial status of the organization. Human capital assessment also helps in estimating cost and productivity of human assets. In this paper, the cost theory of capitalization has been used to calculate the value of human assets.

Keywords: Economic Value Added ( EVA), Human Capital (HC), Human Capital Management (HCM), Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)

Suggested Citation:

Sinha, Avinash, Human Capital Measurement: Earnings Theory of Capitalization Approach (March 02, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5259666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5259666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
10
ABSTRACT VIEWS
141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Change Management Strategy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies