Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Jokes. This Joke's on You.

104 Pages Posted: 23 May 2025 Last revised: 28 May 2025

Thomas Günther

Dresden University of Technology - Faculty of Economics and Business Management

Sebastian Oelrich

Aarhus University

Date Written: May 23, 2025

Abstract

Humor seems to be an inherent part of human nature and has been part of all cultures to our earliest biological and cultural evolution. Humor, and jokes in particular, allow us to share our experiences, to entertain, reassure, and communicate. They serve several rhetorical functions: as building block for social connections, to make an argument or position understandable and relatable, to criticize behavior without alienating the audience, or to show one’s distance towards others. This book contains jokes that we collected through a survey of international and German speaking scholars and which was carried out in 2024 as part of a larger research project on humor in accounting.

Keywords: humor, joke, stereotype, accounting

Suggested Citation:

Günther, Thomas and Oelrich, Sebastian, Accounting Jokes. This Joke's on You. (May 23, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5265724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 References
Warum War Die Buchhalterin So Gut Im Jonglieren? Weil Sie Immer Die Konten Im Gleichgewicht Hält
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
656
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,215
RANK
92,044
1 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies