Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differently Trained Practitioners' Approaches to Tax Work: Divergence, Convergence, and Further Insights for the Profession

Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 4, 2024, p. 767-822

56 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Till-Arne Hahn

HEC Montreal

Tisha King

University of Waterloo - University of Waterloo, Faculty of Arts, School of Accounting and Finance, Students

Suzanne Landry

HEC Montreal - Department of Accounting Studies

Date Written: May 21, 2025

Abstract

In many countries, tax practitioners represent a diverse set of professionals with different backgrounds and training. Yet, because there is limited empirical research directly comparing them, little is known about how differently trained practitioners (for example, accountants and lawyers) approach tax work. Employing mixed methods in a qualitatively driven manner, we first draw on in-depth interviews with 38 mostly senior-level practitioners. From these interviews, we inductively identify four dimensions—basic orientation, basic mindset, broader sensitivity, and process orientation—along which tax professionals are seen to differ, as well as an overall philosophy that appears to guide how they approach tax work. On the basis of these findings, we conduct a second study, an open-ended response survey, that allows us to refine and substantiate these dimensions and the philosophies identified. In a third study, we use a survey to quantitatively triangulate the dimensions and philosophies identified through our qualitative data, and to delve more deeply into the extent to which practitioners may evolve and whether there is any convergence in the approaches of differently trained professionals over time. Our three studies contribute to a growing body of literature examining tax professionals and their work by advancing the understanding of how individuals typically differ in their overall approaches to tax work, by offering insight into the comparative growth in competence, and by offering a possible explanation for why some groups of professionals may be more actively involved than others in tax planning. Our findings have implications for professional associations and others who oversee the competence and quality of work of tax practitioners, as well as educational institutions and others who are charged with their training.

Keywords: TAX PROFESSIONALS, TAX WORK, MIXED METHODS

Suggested Citation:

Hahn, Till-Arne and King, Tisha and Landry, Suzanne, Differently Trained Practitioners' Approaches to Tax Work: Divergence, Convergence, and Further Insights for the Profession (May 21, 2025). Canadian Tax Journal/Revue fiscale canadienne, Vol. 72, No. 4, 2024, p. 767-822, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5270964 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5270964
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Jesse Robertson , Dan Stone , Liza Niederwanger , Matthew Grocki , Ed Smith
Offshore Outsourcing of Tax-Return Preparation
CPA Journal , volume 75 , issue 6 , p. 54 - 57 Posted: 2005
Jay A Soled
Outsourcing Tax Return Preparation and Its Implications Posted: 2005
Brian E Daugherty , Denise Dickins , M G Fennema
Offshoring Tax and Audit Procedures: Implications for US-Based Employee Education
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 27 , p. 733 - 742 Posted: 2012
Richard Susskind , Daniel Susskind
The Future of the Professions: How Technology Will Transform the Work of Human Experts Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
181
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies