Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Markets: Evidence from the PCAOB

40 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2025 Last revised: 3 Jun 2025

Kerry Xiao

Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Department of Accounting

Date Written: May 15, 2025

Abstract

How do regulators act to regulate markets? This study presents an economic framework with descriptive evidence. I argue that regulators, constrained by their powers and resources, utilize a regulatory portfolio across stakeholders and policy tools to influence markets. Analyzing the full spectrum of its activities, I find that the PCAOB employs diverse tools to target the entire financial reporting ecosystem, including auditors, audit committees, investors, preparers, and the public, rather than solely regulating auditors. Moreover, the PCAOB actively manages its regulatory portfolio by selecting specific activities. Overall, my findings suggest that regulators operate in a market-oriented and endogenous manner.

Keywords: regulators, market ecosystem, stakeholders, policy tools, PCAOB, audit market, regulatory publications

Suggested Citation:

Xiao, Kerry, Regulating Markets: Evidence from the PCAOB (May 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5277418 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5277418
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
356
RANK
747,753
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies