Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
AIS is in the Age of the Metaverse: Applications of AR/VR technology

16 Pages Posted: 13 Jun 2025

Maksym Lazirko

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Date Written: June 12, 2025

Abstract

This paper explores the application of AR/VR within the context of accounting, utilizing the "metaverse experience" platform Roblox to create a proof-of-concept virtual environment. Adopting a design science research approach, this study develops and refines a virtual environment within the Roblox platform. The methodology encompasses the creation of artifacts (the AR/VR-enabled virtual environment) and their evaluation. We examine how immersive technologies can enhance workplaces, offering a perceptual and interactive experience that transcends traditional methods.This study demonstrates the potential of AR/VR to simulate real-world accounting scenarios, facilitate remote collaboration, and improve engagement and retention of complex accounting concepts. The findings suggest that AR/VR technologies not only make learning more accessible and efficient but also pave the way for a future where accounting is more dynamic, engaging, and aligned with digital advancements.

Keywords: Virtual Reality (VR), Roblox, Metaverse, Accounting, Accounting Information Systems, Software, Design Science, Data Visualization

JEL Classification: M31, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lazirko, Maksym, AIS is in the Age of the Metaverse: Applications of AR/VR technology (June 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5291764 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5291764
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
, p. 6 - 25
S Deep , S Vishnoi , R Malhotra , S Mathur , H Yawale , A Kumar , A Singla
Influence of augmented reality and virtual reality on real estate investment decisions: Understand consumer perspective in Indian AEC industry. Engineering, Construction and Architectural Management Posted: 2023
D Geradin , D Katsifis
The Antitrust Case Against the Apple App Store
Journal of Competition Law & Economics , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 503 - 585 Posted: 2021
J Han , G Liu , Y Gao
Learners in the Metaverse: A Systematic Review on the Use of Roblox in Learning
Education Sciences , volume 13 , issue 3 Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Fangbing Xiong , Jie Bao
Next-Generation Gamification in Accounting Education: Digital-Role Play Games (D-RPGs) with Generative AI (GAI)
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 171 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
297
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies