Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Debt – A Primer on Understanding Important Implications of SME Debt Financing for Business Valuers

Posted: 2 Jul 2025

Harri Seppänen

Aalto University - Department of Accounting and Finance

Timo Teinila

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 06, 2025

Abstract

This article explores the complexities and implications of estimating the cost of debt (COD) for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in business valuation. In business valuations of SME’s, a market price for the cost of debt of a company is often not available due to the private nature of SME debt. Therefore, assumptions for valuations frequently simplify this issue to a degree that for very levered companies’ valuations could be materially impacted. We propose a step-by-step method for the estimation of the cost of SME debt based on the costs that SME loans cause for their typical lenders, namely banks. Our method is straightforward, and uses publicly available information from banks and rating agencies, and provides valuers with a well-justified cost of debt when market prices are not available.

Article published in The European Business Valuation Magazine (EBVM), 2025, Volume 4, Issue 2 Spring, pp. 4-17, https://eacva.com/ebvm/

Keywords: Cost of Debt, SME, Business Valuation

Suggested Citation:

Seppänen, Harri and Teinila, Timo, The Cost of Debt – A Primer on Understanding Important Implications of SME Debt Financing for Business Valuers (June 06, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5319584
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
201
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies