Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Annuity Tables Versus Factually-Based Estate Tax Valuation: Ithaca Trust Revisited

36 Pages Posted: 18 Apr 2004

Wendy C. Gerzog

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Abstract

This Article discusses Ithaca Trust and that case's emphasis on the integrity of actuarial tables for estate tax valuation purposes. The author argues that application of actuarial table values for estate tax valuation is the best means to value estates where use of tables is mandated, despite recent decisions that have allowed admission of facts to alter the valuation of property where actuarial table values should have applied.

Suggested Citation:

Gerzog, Wendy C., Annuity Tables Versus Factually-Based Estate Tax Valuation: Ithaca Trust Revisited. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=532062
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
The Second Circuit in Gribauskas agreed with the Tax Court that there was no precedent, except for Shackleford, that provided for a departure from the tables for lack of marketability
See Ithaca Trust
Crossref
I R C See , §7520
They are also not "substantially unrealistic" under case law prior to the enactment of I.R.C. §7520. However, the statute exceptions
I R S See
Life expectancies were calculated using the Treasury Department's Table 90 CM
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
99
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,068
RANK
623,124
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies