Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Aftermath of Social Distancing on the Financial Accounting Profession during the COVID-19 Pandemic

4 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2025

Mohamed Zogbour

University of Sharjah

Mohammad Abu Dayah

University of Sharjah

Ali Bayegan

University of Sharjah

Walaa Elkelish

University of Sharjah

Magdi El Bannany

Umm Al Quwain University; Ain Shams University

Shatha Mustafa Hussain

City University Ajman; The British University in Dubai

Date Written: June 27, 2025

Abstract

This paper investigates the aftermath of social distancing on the financial accounting profession during the COVID-19 pandemic in the UAE. The paper conducted primary research using a qualitative dataset and content analysis. The findings have shown that social distancing significantly impacts accounting performance and processes. This paper is helpful for accounting professionals and accounting firms to develop more effective and comprehensive working strategies during pandemics.

Keywords: Accounting Profession, COVID-19, Social Distancing, Emerging Market

Suggested Citation:

Zogbour, Mohamed and Abu Dayah, Mohammad and Bayegan, Ali and Elkelish, Walaa and El Bannany, Magdi and Hussain, Shatha Mustafa, The Aftermath of Social Distancing on the Financial Accounting Profession during the COVID-19 Pandemic (June 27, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5328004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5328004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
A Abu-Akel , A Spitz , R West
Who is listening? Spokesperson Effect on Communicating Social and Physical Distancing Measures During the COVID-19 Pandemic Posted: 2020
Y F Akbar , A Rizal , N N Islami , W
The urgency of using online-based learning media to enhance students' self-directed learning and the results of a study on the accounting chapter of economics subjects
IOP Conference Series: Earth and Environmental Science , volume 485 Posted: 2020-05
K Albitar , A Gerged , H Kikhia , K &hussainey
Auditing during social distancing: The effect of COVID-19 on auditing quality Posted: 2020
N Almarzooqi , M Shah , A Mohammed , W Elkelish , A Jaafar , D M El-Bannany
The Determinants of Customer Profitability Analysis During the COVID-19 Crisis. Working paper
The International Conference on Business and Digital Technology (ICBDT2024) Posted: 2024-11-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
195
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies