Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Considerations on Auditors' Judgment Criteria - Focusing on Revenue Recognition for Software

Tohoku Management & Accounting Research Group | Discussion Paper No. 118 | July 2015

22 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025

Masatoshi Sakaki

Tohoku University

Hiroko Inokuma

Keio University - Graduate School of System Design and Management; Tohoku University

Date Written: July 01, 2015

Abstract

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which are being adopted as a means of international standardization of accounting, are said to have characteristics that differ from US standards and Japanese standards in terms of their adoption of a principles-based approach. Principle-based accounting is based on the philosophy of aiming for the ideal form of financial reporting without being bound by detailed rules in the relationship between auditors and companies preparing financial reports. However, in the actual application of these principles-that is, when preparing financial statements in accordance with the standards and conducting audits of such statements-auditors or companies must adopt different approaches compared to traditional practices (Nobes, 2005; Benston, Bromwich, and Wagenhofer, 2006a, 2006b, etc.). This paper examines specific accounting events that give rise to judgmental variability in audit judgments, focusing on revenue recognition for software, which requires complex judgments such as estimates, and discusses the relationship between the various types of audit judgment criteria and the actual responses of auditors. We demonstrate, with concrete examples, that regardless of whether the applicable audit standards follow a rule-based or principle-based approach, auditors form a basis for judgment-often referred to as "Auditor GAAP"-to fill gaps in the standards. This role becomes particularly significant when transitioning to a principle-based approach.

Keywords: Audit Judgment, Software Revenue Recognition, VSOE, Auditor GAAP, US Standards, Principle-Based, Rule-Based

JEL Classification: M41, M42, F2, G18

Suggested Citation:

Sakaki, Masatoshi and Inokuma, Hiroko, Considerations on Auditors' Judgment Criteria - Focusing on Revenue Recognition for Software (July 01, 2015). Tohoku Management & Accounting Research Group | Discussion Paper No. 118 | July 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353873 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353873
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
A Research -Based Perspective on the SEC's Proposed Rule-Roadmap for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared
Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. Issuers、 " Accounting Horizons、 Vol , volume 24 , p. 139 - 147 Posted: 2010
The Impact of Academic Accounting Research on Professional Practice : An Analysis by the AAA Research Impact Task Force
Accounting Horizons , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 411 - 456 Posted: 2009
AAA's Financial Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 2003
Concept-Based vs. Rules-Based Approaches to Standards Setting
Accounting Horizons、 , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 89
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
125
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies