Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
System Design Management for the Creation of Key Industries Based on Public Interest Capitalism: Focusing on the Changing Character of Venture Capital and Benchmarking

Conference proceedings of Thirty-third Asian-Paciﬁc Conference on International Accounting Issues, Vancouver, November 10-12, 2024

27 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2025

George Hara

The Chinese University of Hong Kong

Hiroko Inokuma

Keio University - Graduate School of System Design and Management; Tohoku University

Date Written: November 04, 2024

Abstract

In this paper, we clarify the difference between business creation based on existing industries and markets and the approach to creating a new industrial base. In particular, the importance of selecting and identifying companies in the seed and early stages will be demonstrated in light of best practices in Silicon Valley. Then we showed that the internal rate of return (IRR), which is frequently used as a benchmark by today's globalized and gigantic VC firms, is inappropriate for evaluating investments in venture companies that aim to create technology in the real economy, and that it is also a method of evaluation that can kill the seeds of technological innovation that will enrich society in the future. We also explained how financial techniques are used in the IRR calculation process. In summary, the major significance of this paper is that it presented a grand design for efforts during the creation of a base industry. In doing so, we suggested the possibility of a business model in which IPO is not necessarily the goal. 

Keywords: Creation of New Core Industries, Venture Capital, Venture Finance, Startups, Investment Decisions and Outcome Measures, MOIC (Multiples of Invested Capital), IRR (Internal Rate of Return)

Funder Statement

This study was funded by a Grant-in-Aid provided by the National Institute of Informatics in Japan. Research Project Number 23H00755 (from April 2023 to March 2027).

JEL Classification: M41, M48, F2, G18

Suggested Citation:

Hara, George and Inokuma, Hiroko, System Design Management for the Creation of Key Industries Based on Public Interest Capitalism: Focusing on the Changing Character of Venture Capital and Benchmarking (November 04, 2024).
Conference proceedings of Thirty-third Asian-Paciﬁc Conference on International Accounting Issues, Vancouver, November 10-12, 2024
, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353909 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353909
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
References
W D Bygrave , J Timmons
Venture Capital at the Crossroads. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research Reference in Entrepreneurship Posted: 1992
S Canderle
The Debt Trap: How Leverage Impacts Private-Equity Performance Posted: 2016
E Y Japan
Corporate accounting navigator, accounting by industry, VC & fund industry , volume 8 Posted: 2024-05-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
162
RANK
880,951
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies