Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor's Judgments Under Principle-based Accounting Standards -Evidence from France and U.K. 

18 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2025

Hiroko Inokuma

Keio University - Graduate School of System Design and Management; Tohoku University

Takashi Shimizu

University of Tokyo

Date Written: November 08, 2012

Abstract

When independent auditors make judgments under principle-based accounting standards, they tend to be risk-averse in order to avoid the high risk of litigation. Thus, to prevent the gap between the judgments of audit firms and those of individual auditors from widening, auditors deploy certain coping processes. This approach implies that auditors face larger room for discretion as well as greater responsibility in terms of making a professional judgment. In such a circumstance, this study shows that when standards change auditors prefer to rely on existing accounting rules, each auditor's own rules and standards, and shared practices in order to avoid litigation risks, weaken the pressure of aggressive reporting, or reduce the possibility of opinion shopping, namely changing auditors to those that provide favorable opinions to clients.

Keywords: Auditor Judgment, Dispersion of Abnormal Accruals, Audit Firms, Audit Opinions

Funder Statement

Grant-in-Aid was provided by National Institute of Informatics in Japan, Research Project Number 23730425 (from April 2011 to March 2013).

JEL Classification: M42, F2, G15, G38

Suggested Citation:

Inokuma, Hiroko and Shimizu, Takashi,
Auditor's Judgments Under Principle-based Accounting Standards -Evidence from France and U.K. 
(November 08, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5353750 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5353750
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Download This Paper
 
' onclick='sendLeadBoxerEvent()' > Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
34
ABSTRACT VIEWS
144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies