Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Meaning of RIBA and its Prohibation in Islam

6 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2025

Prof. Dr. Masood Mashkoor Siddiqui

University of Karachi; Federal Urdu University of Arts, Science & Technology

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: September 07, 2010

Abstract

In this article our objective is to discuss the problem of prohibiting Riba in Islam. We would also point out the rationale behind the prohibition, as given by various jurists of Islam. Later we present a description of Islamic alternatives of replacing Riba from the economy. In the first section of this article we discuss the meaning of Riba in the light of Quranic verses and its interpretation by Islamic jurists. The second section discusses the alternatives for replacing Riba that are consistent with Islamic spirit. We conclude this article after some comments on the potentials of these alternatives for building a new financial system.

Declaration of Interest

------

Ethics Approval

-------

Funder Statement

-------

Suggested Citation:

Siddiqui, Masood Mashkoor and Siddiqui, Masood Mashkoor, The Meaning of RIBA and its Prohibation in Islam (September 07, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5355438 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5355438
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
S A Maududi
Islamic publications Posted: 1961
Maududi
, p. 150 - 151
Shafi , M Mufti
Idarat-ul-Ma'arif
Masa-lay Sood (The problem of Interest
Maududi
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
19
ABSTRACT VIEWS
128
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies