Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Information Uncertainty and Audit Report Lag

50 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2025

Jahedul Bhuiyan

University of Texas at El Paso

Jobaer Hossain

University of Memphis

Pankaj K. Jain

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

Mai Dao

University of Toledo - College of Business Administration

Anisur Rahman

Westminster College

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between information uncertainty and audit lag, the time between a firm's fiscal year-end and its audit report issuance. Analyzing 28,584 observations from 2001 to 2023, we find that higher information uncertainty significantly lengthens audit lag. Audit lag shortens when firms meet or beat analyst forecasts or when earnings forecasts are accurate, indicating that lower information uncertainty is associated with expedited audits. Results hold for firms audited by Big 4 auditors and remain robust after applying propensity score matching and the Heckman two-stage estimation method. These findings underscore the importance of reducing information uncertainty for stakeholders’ reliance on timely financial disclosures.

Keywords: Information uncertainty, Audit report lag, Dispersion in earnings forecasts

Suggested Citation:

Bhuiyan, Jahedul and Hossain, Jobaer and Jain, Pankaj K. and Dao, Mai and Rahman, Anisur, Information Uncertainty and Audit Report Lag. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5358690 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5358690
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit assistance and external audit timeliness
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 34 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 20 Posted: 2012
R H Alkebsee , A Habib , H J Huang , G Tian
The gender-diverse audit committee and audit report lag: Evidence from China
International Journal of Auditing , volume 26 , p. 314 - 337 Posted: 2022
R H Ashton , P R Graul , J D Newton
Audit delay and the timeliness of corporate reporting
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 657 - 673 Posted: 1989
R H Ashton , J J Willingham , R K Elliott
An empirical analysis of audit delay
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 275 - 292 Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
56
ABSTRACT VIEWS
287
RANK
872,691
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies