Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Students’ Perceptions of the Effectiveness of Role-Plays in Facilitating Ethics Education

73 Pages Posted: 1 Aug 2025

Soné Pretorius

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Taryn Miller

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

PurposeThis study investigates accounting students’ perceptions of the effectiveness of role-plays in facilitating ethics education and equipping students for ethical dilemmas within the workplace.MethodologyTwo role-plays were designed that aimed to simulate technical and ethical issues that accountants could face in business situations. The study took place at a South African university. Five online and five face-to-face role plays tool place amongst 30 senior accounting students. Survey and focus group data was obtained on students’ perceptions of the usefulness of the role-plays.Main findingsStudents perceived the role-plays to have enhanced their awareness and understanding of ethical dilemmas, and helpful preparation for navigating future possible ethical dilemmas in the workplace. Furthermore, role-plays were perceived to enhance students’ understanding of technical knowledge and the development of other professional skills, such as critical thinking, listening and questioning skills, dealing with complex matters, conflict resolution and professional behaviour. Students preferred face-to-face role-plays, but still found online role-plays useful, and requested that role-plays be incorporated as a teaching method in university courses.

Keywords: Accounting education, ethics, professional skills, role-play

Suggested Citation:

Pretorius, Soné and Miller, Taryn, Accounting Students’ Perceptions of the Effectiveness of Role-Plays in Facilitating Ethics Education. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5374923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5374923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Iii Aldhizer , G R
Small firm audit partner hiring crisis: A role play for critical thinking and negotiation skills
Issues in Accounting Education , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 275 - 296 Posted: 2015
V Aruna
Teaching -Learning methods in medical education merits and demerits
International Journal of Research and Review , volume 6 , p. 215 - 221 Posted: 2019-08
J Ballantine , I Lubbe
Ethics education in South Africa: A report on SAICA trainees' perceptions and experiences of ethics during their education and training period
SAICA Report. Retrieved on Posted: 2019-05-02
C Beard
Dewey in the World of Experiential Education. New Directions for Adult and Continuing Education , p. 27 - 37 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
21
ABSTRACT VIEWS
265
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies