Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Attribution of Responsibility in Accounting Firm Service Failures: The Effect of Generative AI Promotion on Client Perceptions

20 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2025 Last revised: 5 Oct 2025

Dennis O'Reilly

East Carolina University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: August 02, 2025

Abstract

Accounting firms are investing heavily in generative AI and increasingly promoting these investments as central to their service models. While such messaging signals innovation and efficiency, it may also influence how clients assign blame when service errors occur. Drawing on attribution theory, this study employs a between-subjects experimental design to test whether clients assign responsibility for errors differently based on a firm’s marketing emphasis on generative AI versus traditional services. Participants read a scenario in which a firm-prepared tax return contained errors. In one condition, the accounting firm’s marketing highlighted its use of generative AI tools; in the other, it emphasized a focus on traditional services. The source of the error was left ambiguous. Participants exposed to AI-promoting messaging attributed more blame for the errors to the firm, perceived it as having greater control over error prevention, and judged the errors as more likely to recur. These findings suggest that promoting generative AI in firm marketing may raise client expectations about control and reliability, increasing reputational risk even when the technology’s role in an error is unclear. The study contributes to research on attribution in professional services and highlights a potential tradeoff: firms that emphasize technological sophistication may also be seen as more culpable when things go wrong.

Keywords: AI promotion, Accounting Firm Marketing, Generative AI

Declaration of Interest

The author declares no conflicts of interest related to this research.

Funder Statement

This research did not receive any grant or external funding.

JEL Classification: M40, M41, O33, C91

Suggested Citation:

O'Reilly, Dennis, Attribution of Responsibility in Accounting Firm Service Failures: The Effect of Generative AI Promotion on Client Perceptions (August 02, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5377004 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5377004
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
L M Andiola , J Bedard , K D Westermann
It's not my fault! Insights into subordinate auditors' attributions and emotions following audit review
Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory , volume 38 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2019
S Banerjee , A Agarwal , S Singla
LLMs will always hallucinate, and we need to live with this Posted: 2024
Bluej
Customers Posted: 2024
J H Choi , C Xie
Human + AI in accounting: Early evidence from the field. MIT Sloan Research Paper No. 7280-25 Posted: 2025
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
301
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies