Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Labor Process in Accounting: A Systematic Literature Review and a Research Agenda from Latin America

22 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2025

Andrés Cabrera-Narváez

Universitaria Agustiniana

Leidy Katerine Rojas-Molina

Universidad Externado de Colombia

Daniel Santiago Malaver-Rivera

Universidad Nacional de Colombia

Abstract

This article seeks to examine how prior research in the field of critical accounting has engaged with the labor process perspective. Based on a systematic literature review, this article argues that accounting is not a neutral tool, but a technology of power that both conceals labor conditions and reproduces dynamics of precarity and control, while simultaneously opening up possibilities for resistance and collective action. The analysis reveals that, although international literature has made progress in understanding the labor process from critical perspectives, there is still a significant gap concerning how these dynamics unfold in the Global South—especially in Latin America—and the role accounting plays in shaping them. Therefore, this article offers a situated perspective that engages with global debates and proposes a research agenda that challenges dominant frameworks, inviting a rethinking of the role of accounting in contexts where global coloniality shapes labor, identity, and life itself.

Keywords: Labor Process, Critical Accounting, Systematic Literature Review, Latin America

Suggested Citation:

Cabrera-Narváez, Andrés and Rojas-Molina, Leidy Katerine and Malaver-Rivera, Daniel Santiago, Labor Process in Accounting: A Systematic Literature Review and a Research Agenda from Latin America. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5381549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5381549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
Aillón Gómez , T Castro López , L F , Á En , & D Julián Galliorio Jorquera , Vejar
Una mirada crítica a la concepción normativa de la precariedad
Estudios del trabajo desde el Sur. Volumen III: Repensar el Sur desde el Estallido , p. 39 - 54 Posted: 2020
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Accounting professionals and the accounting profession: linking conduct and context
Accounting and Business Research , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 41 - 56 Posted: 2002
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Helping them to forget...': the organizational embedding of gender relations in public audit firms
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 469 - 490 Posted: 2005
F Anderson-Gough , C Grey , K Robson
Professionals, networking and the networked professional
Research in the Sociology of Organizations , volume 24 , p. 231 - 256 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
24
ABSTRACT VIEWS
129
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies