Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Unlocking The Future of Asset Management: A Systematic Review of (IoT) Trends, Challenges, And Opportunities

13 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Yeni Priatnasari

Universitas Harkat Negeri; Politeknik Harapan Bersama; Sebelas Maret University - Accounting Department

Ida Afriliana

Politeknik Harapan Bersama Tegal

Abdul Kharis Almasyhari

Universitas Muhammadiyah Semarang

Ayu Nurkhasanah

Politeknik Harapan Bersama Tegal

Date Written: July 15, 2025

Abstract

This study aims to systematically review various literature that discusses the use of the Internet of Things (IoT) in asset management. IoT, as one of the rapidly developing technologies, has significant potential in supporting the automation and efficiency of accounting processes. The study identifies the latest trends in IoT adoption, both from the corporate and regulatory side.This study will review research with the limitations of research published by Scopus indexed research and research conducted over the last 10 years. Keywords that will be used to search for various literature include the internet of things, asset information system.The findings of this literature review will provide a foundation for researchers and accounting practitioners to develop more innovative and responsive accounting systems to the evolving needs of businesses in the digital era as well as research that can be developed related to technology and asset management.




Keywords: Systematic Literature Review, Accounting Information Systems, Aset Management

Declaration of Interest

Thank you for the funding of Politeknik Harapan Bersama

JEL Classification: M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Priatnasari, Yeni and Afriliana, Ida and Almasyhari, Abdul Kharis and Nurkhasanah, Ayu,

Unlocking The Future of Asset Management: A Systematic Review of (IoT) Trends, Challenges, And Opportunities

(July 15, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5382791 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5382791
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
N Amon
Manajemen Aset Berbasis Internet of Things Posted: 2022
M Aria , C Cuccurullo
Bibliometrix: An R Tool for comprehensive science mapping analysis
Journal of Infometrics , volume 11 , p. 959 - 975 Posted: 2017
& Atzori , Morabito
The Internet of Things: A Survey
Computer Networks , volume 54 , issue 15 , p. 2787 - 2805 Posted: 2010
M Aria , C Cuccurullo
Bibliometrix: An R Tool for comprehensive science mapping analysis
Journal of Infometrics , volume 11 , p. 959 - 975 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
93
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies