Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting for Planning and Control in Australian Micro-enterprises - An Exploratory Study

21 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Asma Shabbir

University of Canberra; Macquarie University

Aiza Shabbir

Department of Accounting, Finance and Economics, Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Muhammad Ejaz Sandhu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 31, 2025

Abstract

Management control practices have been evolving from informal economy to formal micro-enterprise setup, Budgeting technique is a key dimension of management control practices. The study aims to understand budgeting practices in micro businesses in the context of focal management accounting issues and informal economic activity dilemmas. The methodological approach is an exploratory pilot study using informal conversational interviews. The research evaluates budgeting practices in micro businesses with in-depth, informal, and unstructured interviews, which contribute theoretically and methodologically to the existing knowledge. The identified themes from thematic analysis are the micro-businesses’ focus on zero-based, incremental, and bottom-up budgeting, b) budgeting for planning, c) and control encompassing i) inventory management, ii) performance evaluation. This research has practical implications for decision making and strategy building while and ambiguities through budgeting practices in planning and control of micro-sized firms. This pilot study is the original contribution of the author from a theoretical and applied lens. However, the sample size limits for generalizing the outcomes for the broader academic and micro-enterprises audience. Nevertheless, the emerging themes open the avenue of extending research on management control practices in micro-enterprises of Australia and other countries

Keywords: Management Control, Microbusiness, Budgeting, Planning, Control

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that they have no personal or financial relationships with individuals or organizations that may have, or could be perceived to have, influenced the conduct, analysis, or reporting of this study. This manuscript originated during doctoral studies at the University of Canberra as part of a management accounting research project. It has since undergone conceptual and thematic refinement, with subsequent authors contributing to both interdisciplinary and disciplinary dimensions of the study. The current version reflects collaborative revisions that align with ethical publishing standards and is subject to further refinement for peer-reviewed publication.

Ethics Approval

The researcher obtained informed consent from all participants before conducting interviews, following the University of Canberra’s Human Research Ethics guidelines. Participants were informed of their right to skip questions or withdraw at any time. Interviews were recorded, anonymized, and securely stored. No incentives were offered, and participation was voluntary.

JEL Classification: M41, D22, O17, L26, L86

Suggested Citation:

Shabbir, Asma and Shabbir, Aiza and Sandhu, Muhammad Ejaz, Budgeting for Planning and Control in Australian Micro-enterprises - An Exploratory Study (July 31, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5387312 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5387312
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
M Abdel-Kader , R Luther
Management accounting practices in the British food and drinks industry
British Food Journal , volume 108 , issue 5 , p. 336 - 357 Posted: 2006
S Alam , S B Ranasinghe , D Wickramasinghe
Ethnographic significance in researching management accounting: Bangladesh and Sri Lanka Posted: 2020
K Ahmad
The use of management accounting practices in Malaysian Micro businesses Posted: 2012
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Handbooks of Management Accounting Research , volume 1 , p. 299 - 318 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
217
RANK
864,731
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies