Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Competency Development in Accounting Education Through Active Teaching Methodologies: Trends and Contributions Aligned with International Accounting Education Standards Board Guidelines

21 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2025

Julia Reis

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Gilberto Miranda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Daniele Bernd

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study identifies and analyzes active methodologies, as evidenced in the systematic reviews conducted by Apostolou and collaborators between 2000 and 2024, applicable to the development of competencies prescribed by IES 2, 3, and 4, aiming to prepare accounting professionals to meet global market demands. A research gap exists regarding the effectiveness of active methodologies in accounting education and their alignment with IAESB competencies. The study is relevant as it examines the pedagogical updates required in the training of accountants, in line with international guidelines and labor market needs. Content analysis was conducted on competencies outlined by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the active methodologies identified in Apostolou’s systematic reviews. Findings indicate that, while some competencies from IES 2, 3, and 4 converge with active methodologies in the literature, integrating other approaches not included in the standards is necessary to better guide educators and enhance students’ competency development. The study also recommends further research on the impact of emerging technologies and adapting teaching methods. The insights contribute to strategies for academic and professional excellence in accounting, offering guidance for educators, institutions, and regulatory bodies in fostering the technical, professional, and ethical competencies required in the profession.

Keywords: Active teaching methodologies, accounting education, International Accounting Education Standards Board.

Suggested Citation:

Reis, Julia and Miranda, Gilberto and Bernd, Daniele, Competency Development in Accounting Education Through Active Teaching Methodologies: Trends and Contributions Aligned with International Accounting Education Standards Board Guidelines. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5388346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5388346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
H Aldamen , H Alkhateeb , K Kercher , K Duncan , J Hollindale
Core competencies for the global workplace: A cross-cultural and skill-based simulation project in accounting
Accounting Education , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 385 - 412 Posted: 2021
B Apostolou , S F Watson , J M Hassell , S A Webber
Accounting education literature review (1997-1999)
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 61 Posted: 2001
B Apostolou , J M Hassell , J E Rebele , S F Watson
Accounting education literature review
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 28 , issue 3-4 , p. 145 - 197 Posted: 2006
B Apostolou , J W Dorminey , J M Hassell , S F Watson
Accounting education literature review
Journal of Accounting Education , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 107 - 161 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
16
ABSTRACT VIEWS
51
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies