Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Employee Flows and Financial Reporting Quality

50 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2025

Michael Dambra

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Joshua Khavis

University at Buffalo (SUNY) - School of Management

Zhiru Lin

Depauw University

Date Written: August 26, 2025

Abstract

Although many firms are concerned about the difficulty in hiring, training, and retaining qualified accounting staff, the human capital of rank-and-file employees is difficult to measure, and its link to a firm's financial reporting quality (FRQ) thus remains largely an open question. We use novel time-series data to examine how different aspects of accounting-employee flows predict FRQ revelations. We find that accounting-employee flows, as measured by its three primary components-(1) churning, (2) net attrition, and (3) net hiring of accounting employees-are positively associated with firms disclosing internal control weaknesses, filing late annual reports, and issuing less timely earnings announcements. We also find that accounting-employee flows are associated with higher audit fees and inaccurate management forecasts. Our study provides new evidence that employee instability within the financial reporting department can be a salient leading indicator of FRQ.

Keywords: employee flows, accounting staff, accounting department, employee flows, accountants, human capital, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: M14, M40, M41, M54

Suggested Citation:

Dambra, Michael and Khavis, Joshua and Lin, Zhiru, Accounting-Employee Flows and Financial Reporting Quality (August 26, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5407366 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5407366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
L J Abbott , B Daugherty , S Parker , G F Peters
Internal audit quality and financial reporting quality: The joint importance of independence and competence
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 40 Posted: 2016
A Agrawal , I Hacamo , Z Hu
Information dispersion across employees and stock returns
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 34 , issue 10 , p. 4785 - 4831 Posted: 2021
H Akamah , S Q Shu
Large shareholder portfolio diversification and voluntary disclosure
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue 4 , p. 2918 - 2950 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , J D Kepler , D F Larcker , S X Shi
Rank-and-file accounting employee compensation and financial reporting quality
Journal of Accounting and Economics Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
109
ABSTRACT VIEWS
361
RANK
580,215
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies