Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Accounting Local Office Relocation: Implications for Firms and Audit Clients

58 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2025 Last revised: 28 Aug 2025

Jared Eutsler

University of North Texas

M. Harris

Washington State University - Department of Accounting

Tyler Williams    

Bentley University

Abstract

This study investigates the economic consequences related to the local office relocation of public accounting firms. We find that relocating local offices is associated with revenue increases buoyed by growth in local audit market share. We also note that relocation is associated with higher client audit fees. However, we find that relocated offices are negatively associated with audit quality. While these findings suggest that public accounting firms are able to increase audit clients and audit fees to offset the associated costs with relocation, the findings also suggest that relocations are disruptive to the audits of publicly-traded companies.

Keywords: office relocation, audit firms, audit client portfolios, audit fees, Audit Quality

Suggested Citation:

Eutsler, Jared and Harris, M. and Williams    , Tyler, Public Accounting Local Office Relocation: Implications for Firms and Audit Clients. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5407197 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5407197
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
K L Alli , G G Ramirez , K Yung
Corporate headquarters relocation: Evidence from the capital markets
Real Estate Economics , volume 19 , issue 4 , p. 583 - 599 Posted: 1991
D Aobdia , P Choudhary , N Newberger
The economics of audit production: What matters for audit quality? An empirical analysis of the role of midlevel managers within the audit firm
The Accounting Review , volume 99 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2024
J Austin , B Currie
Changing organisations for a knowledge economy: The theory and practice of change management
Journal of Facilities Management , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 229 - 243 Posted: 2003
B R Ball
Deloitte offices land LEED Gold rating. Business First Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
188
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies