Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of the selected Product Categories in India: The Influence of Virtual Influencers on Consumer Behavior

10 Pages Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Saurabh Chawaria

Suresh Gyan Vihar University Jaipur

Date Written: March 12, 2025

Abstract

The rapid advancement of digital marketing has resulted in the emergence of Virtual Influencers (VIs), which are computer-generated characters that are intended to captivate audiences on social media platforms. In contrast to conventional influencers, VIs are equipped with AI and 3D design technologies, which provide brands with complete control over their identity and messaging. Kyra and other virtual influencers are acquiring popularity in India, collaborating with brands such as Puma, Maybelline, and Amazon Fashion. The fashion and beauty industries, which are characterized by aspirational lifestyles and aesthetics, are ideal environments for virtual influencer marketing. Nevertheless, it is still uncertain whether consumers in India regard VIs as credible, authentic, and trustworthy enough to affect their purchasing decisions. The objective of this investigation is to evaluate the efficacy of virtual influencers in comparison to conventional influencers and investigate their influence on consumer behavior.

Suggested Citation:

Chawaria, Saurabh and Chawaria, Saurabh, A Study of the selected Product Categories in India: The Influence of Virtual Influencers on Consumer Behavior (March 12, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5421174 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5421174
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
15
ABSTRACT VIEWS
78
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Marketing Science eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies