Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    

Sales Volume: Operational Costs and Promotion Costs – Panel Data Regression Model Analysis Approach

15 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2025

Deri Firmansyah

STIE Pasim Sukabumi

Dwinanto Priyo Susetyo

STIE Pasim Sukabumi

Asep Suryana

PGRI Sukabumi School of Economics

Dadang Saepuloh

University of Islam Syekh Yusuf

Date Written: September 07, 2025

Abstract

In today's competitive global marketplace, businesses of all sizes need to improve their operational and marketing performance to survive and thrive. This study aims to explore the predictive relationship between operational costs, promotional costs, and sales volume. The secondary data analyzed were obtained from the financial statements of four SMEs in the Indonesian context. The regression model used was panel data estimated using Eviews v.12. The panel data regression model analysis, with the REM approach as the selected model, was conducted through a series of tests, namely the Chow test, the Hausman test, and the LM test. The study findings indicate that operational costs have a significant positive effect on sales volume. Promotion costs also have a significant positive effect on sales volume. Variations in the relationship between operational costs and promotional costs have a joint influence that can explain variance of sales volume, with strong predictive power. The findings of this study can fill an existing gap, relevant panel data regression models are applied to quantitative data for sales forecasting to reveal evidence that operational costs and promotional costs are important predictors of sales volume among SMEs.

Keywords: Sales Volume, Operational Costs, Promotion Costs, Sales Forecasting, Panel Data Regression

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

Funder Statement

This research received no external funding.

JEL Classification: M21, L26, M31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Firmansyah, Deri and Susetyo, Dwinanto Priyo and Susetyo, Dwinanto Priyo and Suryana, Asep and Saepuloh, Dadang,

Sales Volume: Operational Costs and Promotion Costs – Panel Data Regression Model Analysis Approach

(September 07, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5452394 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5452394
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Strategy & Microeconomic Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies