Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Algorithms Whisper: Do Accountants Listen to Unethical AI Suggestions?

130 Pages Posted: 9 Sep 2025

Yanming Liu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yuqing Yuan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Liyan Yi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Yiming Chen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Zaoe Qi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Hui Xie

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

The application of artificial intelligence (AI) in accounting has improved efficiency, but it also presents new ethical challenges. Based on social cognitive theory and moral disengagement theory, this study explores the impact of unethical accounting recommendations generated by AI on the decision-making of accounting professionals. We propose that, compared to human recommendations, accounting professionals are more likely to accept unethical AI recommendations, and this effect is more pronounced in management accounting. Anticipatory moral disengagement (AMD) and anticipatory guilt (AG) are hypothesized to play mediating roles, while professional ethical reasoning ability acts as a negative moderator. A series of scenario-based experiments validate these hypotheses. The results indicate that AI's perceived objectivity, "non-human" nature, and "black box" characteristics may lead to a diffusion of responsibility, triggering AMD and reducing AG, thereby increasing the acceptance of unethical recommendations. High professional ethical reasoning ability can mitigate this effect. This study unveils the psychological mechanisms and boundary conditions underlying AI's influence on ethical decision-making by accounting professionals, providing a theoretical basis and practical guidance for AI ethical design, improvement of professional norms, and risk management.

Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Accounting ethics, Ethical Decision-Making, Moral Disengagement, Algorithm Influence

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Yanming and Yuan, Yuqing and Yi, Liyan and Chen, Yiming and Qi, Zaoe and Xie, Hui, When Algorithms Whisper: Do Accountants Listen to Unethical AI Suggestions?. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5461334 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5461334
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
E E Abhulimen A O , Obiki-Osafiele A N , Et
Discussing ethical considerations and solutions for ensuring fairness in AI-driven financial services[J]
International Journal of Frontier Research in Science , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2024
Alon-Barkat S , Busuioc
Human-AI interactions in public sector decision making:"automation bias" and "selective adherence" to algorithmic advice[J/OL]
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 153 - 169 Posted: 2023
D Appelbaum , A Kogan , M Vasarhelyi
Impact of business analytics and enterprise systems on managerial accounting[J/OL]
International journal of accounting information systems , volume 25 , p. 29 - 44 Posted: 2017
Bandura A
Human agency in social cognitive theory
American psychologist , volume 44 , issue 9 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
33
ABSTRACT VIEWS
110
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies