Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Automated Accounting and Auditing in the Platform of Blockchain Technology 

Digital Transformation and Society, 0[10.1108/DTS-10-2024-0197]

Posted: 17 Sep 2025

Payam Noori Doabi

Science and Research Branch of Islamic Azad University

Date Written: September 09, 2025

Abstract

Purpose

The purpose of this research is to enhance the body of knowledge and forecast the future of accounting and auditing. In this regard, it is essential to comprehend the nature, structure and efficacious capabilities of blockchain technology in accounting and auditing to achieve this goal. Furthermore, it is imperative to ascertain the efficacious and affected relationships and factors of this technology to gain insight into and accurately analyses the current situation, and to identify effective strategic factors in the development, improvement of performance and future changes of accounting and auditing.

Design/methodology/approach

In accordance with contemporary methodologies employed in the analysis of future-oriented technology (FTA), this research has undertaken a comprehensive examination of the extant literature on the subject, delineating the principles of automatic accounting and auditing in the context of blockchain technology. The descriptive-exploratory approach within the event approach has been employed to elucidate the pertinent issues. To achieve this objective, the researchers adopted a systemic and philosophical approach with a mixed methodology. This involved conducting an environmental scan and content analysis of the collected resources to elucidate the structures, paradigms and prospective transformations. The results of this review were presented in the form of a semi-structured internet questionnaire and the opinions of 35 international experts on the topics covered in 2023 were sought. The experts were selected using purposive and snowball sampling methods. The survey data were subjected to analysis using the Fuzzy Delphi method. To substantiate or refute the hypothesis of automated accounting and auditing in the blockchain technology platform, the precision of the research outcomes was evaluated through the lens of the linear regression method, the Automatic Linear Modeling (ALM) method, the Support Vector Machine (SVMs) method and the Structural Equation Model (SEM). The software used was ATLAS.ti, Excel, SPSS, Python and SmartPLS.

Findings

The findings of this multi-faceted study, with an accuracy of over 91%, demonstrate that accounting and auditing will be automated on the blockchain platform. The occurrence of this phenomenon will be influenced to a significant degree by technical factors, as well as the perceived usefulness and ease of this automated system.

Suggested Citation:

Noori Doabi, Payam, Automated Accounting and Auditing in the Platform of Blockchain Technology  (September 09, 2025). Digital Transformation and Society, 0[10.1108/DTS-10-2024-0197], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5480631
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
46
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies