Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analytic hierarchy process method to examine the process of identifying key audit matters by independent auditors

20 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2025

HÜSEYİN ÖZYİĞİT

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

This study aims to determine which criteria can be taken into consideration by independent auditors when identifying key audit matters, to determine the importance levels of the criteria taken into consideration and to help independent auditors make a more objective assessment. Through the analytic hierarchy process method, a comparison questionnaire was applied to 93 independent audit firms in the Capital Markets Board of Türkiye and the importance levels of the criteria were determined. It was found that the three most important criteria were Risk Materiality,Legal Requirements and Cost-Benefit Effect, respectively. As a result, it is predicted that clearly defining the criteria for identifying key audit matters will help minimize subjective assessments in the audit process,increase the transparency of the audit process, increase confidence in financial reporting processes, make audit reports more meaningful for stakeholders,and contribute to the standardization of the audit process and provide methodological harmony among different independent auditors.

Keywords: independent audit, key audit matters, Analytic hierarchy process, Independent auditors

Suggested Citation:

ÖZYİĞİT, HÜSEYİN, Analytic hierarchy process method to examine the process of identifying key audit matters by independent auditors. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5502533 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5502533
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
A R Afshari , M Nikolić , Z Akbari
Personnel selection using group fuzzy ahp and saw methods
Journal of Engineering Management and Competitiveness , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 10 Posted: 2017
R An , W Li , D Wang , Y Wang , L Yu
Do key audit matters affect operating activities? Evidence from inventory management , volume 59 , p. 300 - 339 Posted: 2023
G Anna , H Melina , P Christiane , R Johanna
Do key audit matters impact financial reporting behavior?
International Journal of Auditing , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 232 - 244 Posted: 2020
K Annette , R S Nicole , T Jochen
The effects of key audit matters on the auditor's report's communicative value: Experimental evidence from investment professionals and non-professional investors
Europe , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 128 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
36
ABSTRACT VIEWS
156
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies