Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Going Concern(ed): Potential Challenges in Sale-Of-Business Transactions

Business Tax & Company Law Quarterly • VOLUME 16 • ISSUE 2 • JUNE 2025

Posted: 14 Oct 2025

Siyabonga Nyezi

University of the Witwatersrand, Faculty of Commerce, Law & Management, School of Law, Students; Fasken Martineau

Date Written: June 01, 2025

Abstract

One of the fundamental tenets of any sale-of-business transaction is that the business to be transferred must be a going concern and be transferred as such. Not only is the concept of a going concern given life in the provisions of a sale-of-business agreement, it is also found in various pieces of legislation that apply to the transfer of a business. Examples include the Value-Added Tax Act 89 of 1991, the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and, to some extent, the Companies Act 71 of 2008. Each of these statutes contains provisions where the status of a business as a going concern is a key consideration. As such, one might expect that the term ‘going concern’ ought to be defined in each of these Acts. That assumption would be incorrect, as none of these statutes provide a direct and objective definition of the term ‘going concern’. This article examines the absence of a definition for ‘going concern’ in South African legislation applicable to the transfer of a business and the risks arising from the lack of legislative clarity. The article considers the relevant provisions of the aforenamed statutes. Absent a legislative definition, the article examines the attempts made by the courts to define the term ‘going concern’ in two cases, namely, Kopeledi (Pty) Ltd v Madontsela and Others (2009) 30 ILJ 158 (LC) and NEHAWU v University of Cape Town (2003) 24 ILJ 95 (CC), and the challenges resulting from those definitions. Thirdly, the article also explores the approach taken in the International Accounting Standards (IAS) and discusses the challenges also present therein. The article submits that, despite being an internationally accepted set of standards, IAS is not particularly instructive to the present cause. The article then delves into the potential impact of all these lacunae on sale-of-business transactions and concludes with an attempt at legislative drafting, proffering a proposal for what a definition of ‘going concern’ might look like. 

Keywords: Sale Of Business, Going Concern, Accounting, IAS1

Suggested Citation:

Nyezi, Siyabonga and Nyezi, Siyabonga, Going Concern(ed): Potential Challenges in Sale-Of-Business Transactions (June 01, 2025). Business Tax & Company Law Quarterly • VOLUME 16 • ISSUE 2 • JUNE 2025, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5507039
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
21
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies