Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption and Use of Blockchain Technology in Accounting Practices: Experience with Canadian Firms

50 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2025

Wajde Baiod

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Mostaq Hussain

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Janet Thompson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Blockchain technology has great potential to enhance the accounting profession; it can enable a real-time, verifiable, and transparent accounting ecosystem. However, there is insufficient knowledge of the uptake of blockchain in accounting, and most of the blockchain accounting research is conceptual or descriptive. Little is known about the technology adoption in accounting; and empirical evidence and insights are relatively scarce. This study addresses this gap and examines the adoption and use of blockchain technology in accounting. The study draws on the technology-organization-environment (TOE) framework and the institutional theory, and semi-structured interviews are used to collect data from 21 accounting professionals in eight medium to large accounting firms in Canada. The study finds that neither the participants' firms nor their clients had adopted blockchain in accounting. The findings confirm the influence of twelve context-specific factors, highlighting adoption challenges and insufficient knowledge and understanding of blockchain technology and its potential for accounting.  The findings are useful for practitioners and the accounting information systems research community as they provide empirical insights into awareness and understanding of blockchain technology, its adoption and use status in accounting firms in Canada, and the factors influencing its adoption in accounting practices.

Keywords: Blockchain, Adoption and use, Accounting practices, Accounting firms in Canada, Technology-Organization-Environment framework

Suggested Citation:

Baiod, Wajde and Hussain, Mostaq and Thompson, Janet, Adoption and Use of Blockchain Technology in Accounting Practices: Experience with Canadian Firms. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5508407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5508407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
109 References
Acca
Understanding investors: The road to real-time reporting Posted: 2013
Ima Acca
Digital darwinism: Thriving in the face of technology change Posted: 2013
M M A Afifa , H V Van , T L H Van
Blockchain adoption in accounting by an extended UTAUT model: empirical evidence from an emerging economy
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 44 Posted: 2022
A Afsay , A Tahriri , Z Rezaee
A meta-analysis of factors affecting acceptance of information technology in auditing
International Journal of Accounting Information Systems , volume 49 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
28
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
109 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies