Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
No, Partnerships and S-Corporations May Not File Consolidated Tax Returns

WG&L Journals Journal of Taxation (WG&L) Journal of Taxation 2024 Volume 140, Number 06, June 2024 Articles

7 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2025

Alex Young

Hofstra University - Frank G. Zarb School of Business

Date Written: April 19, 2024

Abstract

Petro Lisowsky and Michael Minnis (2020) claim to use consolidated parent tax returns of Subchapter C corporations, Subchapter S corporations, and partnerships filed with the Internal Revenue Service. However, S-corporations and partnerships may not file consolidated tax returns. This article first verifies that Lisowsky and Minnis indeed claim to exclusively use consolidated tax returns (including from S-corporations and partnerships) and then reviews the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (hereinafter the "Code") to confirm that neither S-corporations nor partnerships may file consolidated tax returns.

Keywords: consolidated returns, consolidated tax returns, S corporations, S corps, partnerships

JEL Classification: K34, M41

Suggested Citation:

Young, Alex, No, Partnerships and S-Corporations May Not File Consolidated Tax Returns (April 19, 2024). WG&L Journals Journal of Taxation (WG&L) Journal of Taxation 2024 Volume 140, Number 06, June 2024 Articles, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5546138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5546138
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
14
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: Practitioner Series eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies