Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Voluntary Production and Use of Management Accounting Information: Evidence from U.S. Private Firms

62 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Andrew C. Call

Marshall School of Business - University of Southern California

Bradley E. Hendricks

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Kenan-Flagler Business School

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Andrew Sutherland

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: October 04, 2025

Abstract

We survey and interview U.S. private firm CFOs on their management accounting information practices (MAIPs). We document substantial heterogeneity in the production frequency of variance analyses, profitability analyses, sales forecasts, and cost allocation reports, as well as in the dissemination of this information to internal and external parties. While middle managers commonly access internal reports, rank-and-file employees and suppliers receive them far less frequently than what prior academic literature would suggest. Despite not having to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, many firms regularly evaluate internal control effectiveness and indicate that the benefits of their internal controls outweigh their costs. Our cross-sectional analyses reveal several themes. As firms grow and plan an ownership transition, they produce and disseminate more information. Production and dissemination are also greater among firms obtaining GAAP audits and reporting more technology reliance. Banks and Venture Capital/Private Equity owners appear to influence not only financial reporting, but also MAIPs. Collectively, our results shed light on the economic tradeoffs behind MAIPs in a setting where accounting choices are voluntary. 

Keywords: management accounting, private firms, internal control, budgeting, sales forecast, financial statement, U.S. GAAP, information dissemination, information production

Declaration of Interest

Hendricks is a board member of the Private Company Council of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.

Ethics Approval

Our study was deemed exempt by IRB at MIT (ID E-5840) and UNC (ID 433856).

Suggested Citation:

Call, Andrew C. and Hendricks, Bradley E. and Labro, Eva and Sutherland, Andrew, The Voluntary Production and Use of Management Accounting Information: Evidence from U.S. Private Firms (October 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5564598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5564598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies