Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Personal Income Taxes on Organization Performance: Evidence from Name, Image, and Likeness Compensation Rules

53 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Nathan C. Goldman

North Carolina State University - Department of Accounting

Martin Jacob

University of Navarra, IESE Business School

Date Written: October 01, 2025

Abstract

We examine whether personal income taxes affect organization performance. We use the 2021 introduction of Name, Image, and Likeness (NIL) compensation rules in U.S. college sports, which removed the ban for athletes to earn income for their sports performance while maintaining their eligibility, as a natural experiment. Exploiting novel performance data, we find that teams in low-tax rate states have approximately three more wins per season than schools in high-tax states post-NIL. The effects of personal income taxes on wins are more pronounced among elite conference schools and schools that can attract top recruits. We also find that if elite conference schools are located in low-tax-rate states, they are more likely to advance to the final stages of the championship tournament. Finally, we provide evidence for the mechanism behind improved organizational outcomes: We show that top-ranked recruits are significantly more likely to choose schools in low-tax-rate states after the implementation of NIL. Collectively, our findings show that individual taxation is linked to talent mobility and thus to organizational success.

Keywords: Personal income tax, performance, attracting talents, organizational success JEL Classifications: H24

JEL Classification: H24, J24, J44, J61, M51, L25

Suggested Citation:

Goldman, Nathan C. and Jacob, Martin, The Effects of Personal Income Taxes on Organization Performance: Evidence from Name, Image, and Likeness Compensation Rules (October 01, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5571298 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5571298
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
25
ABSTRACT VIEWS
75
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies