Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bridging Competencies and Expectations: Analysing Graduates’ Work Readiness in China

27 Pages Posted: 7 Oct 2025

Enqingxia Wu

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dayana Jalaludin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Azhar Zubir

Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM)

Abstract

This study examines the role of technical competency, information technology (IT) competency, and soft skills of accounting graduates in shaping their work readiness. In this study, we compare the perspectives of final-year accounting students and their prospective employers. A dual-survey approach was employed, collecting responses from 208 graduating students and 113 employers in Beijing and Shanghai using the Sojump platform. Data were analyzed using SPSS and Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (SmartPLS). The findings reveal a consistent perception gap across all three competency areas, highlighting a misalignment between higher education outcomes and industry expectations. From the students’ perspective, technical competency, IT competency, and soft skills all significantly influenced work readiness. In contrast, employers considered only technical competency and soft skills as significant, with IT competency perceived as less critical in evaluating graduate readiness. While graduates recognize the value of IT skills, their current proficiency may not meet the practical standards demanded by employers. These results underscore the need for accounting education in China to integrate more technology-driven training and practice-based learning with traditional technical instruction to better align educational provision with labor market needs.

Keywords: accounting education, employability, graduates, students, skills, gap analysis

Suggested Citation:

Wu, Enqingxia and Jalaludin, Dayana and Zubir, Azhar, Bridging Competencies and Expectations: Analysing Graduates’ Work Readiness in China. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5574501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5574501
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
N Abayadeera , K Watty
The expectation-performance gap in generic skills in accounting graduates: Evidence from Sri Lanka
Asian Review of Accounting , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 56 - 72 Posted: 2014
C Aryanti , D Adhariani
Students' perceptions and expectation gap on the skills and knowledge of accounting graduates
The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business , volume 7 , issue 9 , p. 649 - 657 Posted: 2020
S Asonitou , T Hassall
Which skills and competences to develop in accountants in a country in crisis?
The International Journal of Management Education , volume 17 , issue 3 Posted: 2019
B Bui , B Porter
The expectation-performance gap in accounting education: An exploratory study
Personal Transferable Skills in Accounting Education , p. 22 - 49 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
13
ABSTRACT VIEWS
57
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies