Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Text Mining Audit Deficiencies: A Comparative Analysis of Big 4 vs. Non-Big 4 Firms in PCAOB Inspection Reports

28 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2025

Emrah Yıldız

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Murat KURTLAR

affiliation not provided to SSRN

SERPIL TOMAK

Mersin University

Abstract

In this study, the deficiencies identified in the audit reports of eight major independent audit firms operating in the United States, published by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board between 2018-2023, were analyzed using text mining methods. This study aims to better understand the deficiencies in audit reports and to analyze these deficiencies by categorizing them into specific categories In this context, the single and double word frequencies in the audit reports were first calculated, and a dataset consisting of these words was created. Then, clusters were created, and clusters of words with deficiencies were assigned. Finally, a comparative analysis using a t-test was conducted on the scores obtained from the deficient words between the Big 4 and non-Big 4 firms. A significant difference was found between the two groups as a result of the t-test conducted on the scores obtained from the word clusters containing the deficiencies of the Big 4 and non-Big 4 firms. These findings provide important information to enhance the quality of audit reports, improve audit processes, and understand audit standards. Additionally, the results highlight the main issues that need to be addressed in the audit processes. This study contributes to the development of strategies to address the deficiencies identified in US audit reports.

Keywords: Audit, Audit Reports, Inceptions Reports, Text Mining, PCAOB

Suggested Citation:

Yıldız, Emrah and KURTLAR, Murat and TOMAK, SERPIL, Text Mining Audit Deficiencies: A Comparative Analysis of Big 4 vs. Non-Big 4 Firms in PCAOB Inspection Reports. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=5577290 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5577290
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
References
J L Abernathy , M Barnes , C Stefaniak
A summary of 10 years of PCAOB. research: What have we learned
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 30 - 60 Posted: 2013
Accountancy Age
J Ahn , H Akamah , S Q Shu
The effect of disclosing audit quality control deficiencies on non-audit tax services: Evidence from Deloitte's 2007 PCAOB Part II inspection report
J. Account. Public Policy , volume 40 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
12
ABSTRACT VIEWS
36
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Research Methods & Methodology in Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies