Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Did so Many Poor-Performing Firms Come to Market in the Late 1990s?: NASDAQ Listing Standards and the Bubble

55 Pages Posted: 11 Mar 2005

April Klein

New York University (NYU); European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Partha S. Mohanram

Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2005

Abstract

This paper examines the impact of Nasdaq Listing Standards on the composition of new listings in the late 1990s. The Nasdaq has two types of listing standards: one based on profitability and the second based explicitly or implicitly on market capitalization. Specifically, unprofitable firms are allowed to list if either their pro-forma net tangible assets, which include the anticipated proceeds from their IPO, exceeds $18 million or their market capitalization exceeds $75 million. We show that as the market bubble accelerated in the late 1990s, a vast majority of firms entered under a market capitalization based standard, and these firms became a substantial portion of the Nasdaq. Subsequently, these firms performed the poorest both in terms of financial performance, stock return performance as well as involuntary delistings, while firms that listed under the profitability standard performed much better. In addition, firms that entered under market capitalization standards also exhibited the greatest return volatility. These results illustrate the importance of a profitability standard and the danger of a market capitalization based standard (explicit or implicit) in a market that is in, what ex-post turns out to be, a bubble.

JEL Classification: G10, G18, G24

Suggested Citation:

Klein, April and Mohanram, Partha S., Why Did so Many Poor-Performing Firms Come to Market in the Late 1990s?: NASDAQ Listing Standards and the Bubble (April 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=680667 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.680667
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Brad M Barber , John D Lyon
Detecting long-run abnormal stock returns: The empirical power and specification of test statistics
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 43 , p. 341 - 372 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Hendrik Bessembinder
Trade execution costs on Nasdaq and the NYSE: A postreform comparison
Journal of Financial Analysis , volume 34 , p. 387 - 407 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Ronald J. Gilson , Bernard S. Black
Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks Versus Stock Markets
Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 47, pp. 243-277, 1998 Pages: 52 Posted: 11 Sep 1996
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John Y Campbell , Martin Lettau , Burton G Malkiel , Yexiao Xu
Have individual stocks become more volatile? An empirical exploration of idiosyncratic risk
Journal of Finance , volume 56 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,131
RANK
108,765
4 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

Why Has IPO Underpricing Changed Over Time?

By Tim Loughran and Jay R. Ritter

A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing and Allocations

By Jay R. Ritter and Ivo Welch

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies