Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Certification in the Former Soviet Union and its Importance to the Energy Sector

Barry University, Andreas School of Business Working Paper

23 Pages Posted: 5 May 2005

Robert W. McGee

Fayetteville State University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: April 2005

Abstract

The decline and fall of the Soviet empire has had profound effects on accounting and the accounting profession in the former Soviet republics. As the nations of the former Soviet Union have started to shift from central planning to a market economy they have encountered difficulties in adopting and implementing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Accountants were not trained in IFRS and ISA and universities have only recently begun to add these subjects to their curriculum. Some national certification exams have started to test on these subjects but the national certifications do not have much credibility, especially in the international marketplace, because of corruption and the perception of poor quality. Lack of credibility is an especially important issue in the energy sector, since this is one of the sectors most in need of injections of foreign capital. Yet attracting foreign capital is made more difficult by lack of credible financial statements. The market is solving this credibility problem by offering several internationally recognized and respected certifications in the English language. There is also a regional certification program that offers a series of credible exams in the Russian language. This paper reports on these certification programs.

Keywords: Accounting certification, ACCA, CMA, CFM, CIPA, CAP, Russia, Ukraine, Central Asia, USAID, Soviet Union, FDI

JEL Classification: I2, J44, J62, L84, M41, M53, P21

Suggested Citation:

McGee, Robert W., Accounting Certification in the Former Soviet Union and its Importance to the Energy Sector (April 2005). Barry University, Andreas School of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=713904 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.713904
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Certified International Professional Accountant www.globalcipa.org/ Certified International Professional Accountant Examination Network www
Adolf J H Enthoven , V Yaroslav , Svetlana M Sokolov , Valery V Bychkova , Maria V Kovalev , Semenova
Accounting, Auditing and Taxation in the Russian Federation. A joint publication of the IMA Foundation for Applied Research, an affiliate of the Institute of Management Accountants Posted: 1998
Institute of Management Accountants www.imanet.org/ima
Steve Kenney
Various correspondence. USAID Central Asian Accounting Reform Project Posted: 2004
Load more
3 Citations
Robert W. McGee
Accounting Certification in Russia
18 Pages · Posted: 26 Feb 2008 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee
Certification of Accountants in Georgia
10 Pages · Posted: 18 May 2008 · Downloads: 101
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert W. McGee
Accounting Certification in Central Asia
13 Pages · Posted: 24 Dec 2007 · Downloads: 148
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,554
RANK
393,016
3 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance in Transition and Developing Economies: A Case Study of Brazil

By Robert W. Mcgee

Insider Trading Regulation in Transition Economies

By Robert W. Mcgee

Timeliness of Financial Reporting in the Russian Energy Sector

By Robert W. Mcgee

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies