Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Knowing vs. Applying Accounting Causal Relationships: Experimental Evidence on the Decision Performance Effects of Problem Similarity and Comparison

AAA Management Accounting Section 2006 Meeting Paper

55 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2005

Ella Mae Matsumura

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Sandra C. Vera-Munoz

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Abstract

Accountants tend to overlook relevant principles and causal relationships that are commonly taught in education and experienced in practice. This raises the question: Do accountants apply what they know? This study relies on analogical reasoning research to develop and test predictions about the tendency of accountants to omit key causal relationships in a challenging decision setting: recommending revenue-maximizing strategies to a client in the midst of a business-model change. In our experiment, we first elicit comparisons of various source problems from some of our participants (the comparison condition), but not from the others (the advice condition). Next, the participants assume the role of a business consultant and recommend ways to improve a client's revenue in a new setting. The new setting shares with the source problems either (1) a key causal relationship and several literal similarities (the literal similarity condition), or (2) a key causal relationship but no literal similarities (the relational similarity condition). We predict and find that comparison enhances the quality of accountants' recommendations when the source problems are literally similar to the new setting, and that depriving participants of literal similarities enhances the quality of recommendations when participants do not make comparisons. Our findings show that similarity and comparison help reduce the gap between knowing and applying accounting causal relationships in new settings. Additional tests confirm that the findings are not explained by whether a participant is equipped with the key accounting causal relationship. The study has implications for decision making in seemingly familiar but complex settings, such as revenue-enhancement or cost-containment decisions following business-model changes.

Keywords: causal-knowledge representation, literal vs. relational similarity, comparison and advice, accounting causal relationships

Suggested Citation:

Matsumura, Ella Mae and Vera-Munoz, Sandra C., Knowing vs. Applying Accounting Causal Relationships: Experimental Evidence on the Decision Performance Effects of Problem Similarity and Comparison. AAA Management Accounting Section 2006 Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=772945 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.772945
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
W Ahn , W Brewer , R Mooney
Schema acquisition from a single example
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition , volume 18 , p. 391 - 412 Posted: 1992
Crossref
A Atkinson , R Kaplan , S M Young
Activity-Based Cost Systems
Management Accounting , p. 121 - 179 Posted: 2004
R Baron , D Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic, and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 51 , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986-12
Crossref
M Bassok , V Chase , S Martin
Adding apples and oranges: Alignment of semantic and formal knowledge
Cognitive Psychology , volume 35 , p. 99 - 134 Posted: 1998-03
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
247
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,152
RANK
282,998
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Going Concern Decisions and Auditor Switches: An Economic Perspective

By Robert R. Tucker and Ella Mae Matsumura

Going-Concern Judgments: An Experimental Test of the Self-Fulfilling Prophecy and Forecast Accuracy

By Robert R. Tucker, Ella Mae Matsumura, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies