Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting as Practice

51 Pages Posted: 12 Oct 2005

Thomas Ahrens

United Arab Emirates University (UAEU) - Accounting

Christopher S. Chapman

University of Bristol

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

In this paper we outline a distinctive practice theory approach to considering the role of management accounting in the constitution of organizations. Building on Schatzki's (2002) notion of arrays of activity we emphasise the ways in which organisational members actively reconstitute their management control systems by drawing on them as a shared resource. By tracing the skilful practices through which social actors in a restaurant chain understand and mobilise accounting to contribute in specific ways to what they regard as the objectives of their organisational units, we develop a notion of situated functionality. Situating the interrelationships between technical and interpretive accounting processes in the wider field of organisational practices we elaborate the ways in which management control systems as structures of intentionality both shape and are shaped by shared norms and understandings.

Keywords: management control, practice theory, situated functionality, field study

JEL Classification: M40, M46

Suggested Citation:

Ahrens, Thomas and Chapman, Christopher S., Management Accounting as Practice (2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=816784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.816784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
15 Citations
Gaia Bassani , Cristiana Cattaneo
Performance Management Systems and Strategy: The state of the art in Italian journals
MANAGEMENT CONTROL , issue 2 , p. 13 Posted: 2015
Crossref
François Jaujard
Critique des évaluations de la performance au travail
Revue Française de Gestion , volume 42 , issue 260 , p. 55 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Fabio Santini
Strategic Management Accounting and financial performance in the small and medium sized Italian manufacturing enterprises
MANAGEMENT CONTROL , issue 1 , p. 77 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Paolo Collini , Maria Laura Frigotto
Management Control Systems for exploration? A paradox and a challenge for research
MANAGEMENT CONTROL , issue 1 , p. 27 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,734
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,816
RANK
23,243
15 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Institutional Theory and Accounting Rule Choice: An Analysis of the Four U.S. State Governments' Decisions to Adopt Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

By Vivian L. Carpenter and Ehsan H. Feroz

Corporatisation and Accounting Change: The Role of Accounting and Accountants in a Malaysian Public Utility

By Abu Kasim Nor-aziah and Robert William Scapens

Costing Information in the UK NHS: The (Non-) Use of Cost Information in the UK NHS Trust Hospitals

By Dila A. Agrizzi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies