Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Different Tax Treatment of Investment Advisory Fees and Brokerage Fees; the Lower the Fiduciary Duty, the Better the Tax Consequences

30 Pages Posted: 2 Mar 2006

Barry Rickert

Pace University - School of Law

Date Written: February 22, 2006

Abstract

The tax laws favor brokerage fees as compared to investment advisory fees, even though investment advisors are held to a higher standard of fiduciary duty. This article examines the different tax treatment of investment advisory fees and brokerage fees, analyzes the policy considerations of such treatment and proposes alternatives to the current system.

Keywords: Tax, Securities, Investment Advisor, Broker, Fees

Suggested Citation:

Rickert, Barry, The Different Tax Treatment of Investment Advisory Fees and Brokerage Fees; the Lower the Fiduciary Duty, the Better the Tax Consequences (February 22, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=886443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.886443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Barbara Black , Jill I Gross
Economic Suicide: The Collision of Ethics and Risk in Securities Law, 64 U. Pitt
L. Rev , volume 483
See Black, supra note 15
See Black and Gross, supra note 97
See NASD Conduct Rule 2310, NASD Manual (CCH) Posted: 1998-02-21
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
387
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,314
RANK
175,068
1 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies