Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting, Contracts and Trust in Inter-Organizational Alliances

20 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2006

Suresh Cuganesan

Swinburne University of Technology

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

Despite a significant amount of research on the topic of how inter-organizational alliances are governed, specific gaps exist in relation to the relationship between trust and formal controls and the mechanisms by which trust is produced. This paper examines the trust-formal control nexus, considering both contracts and accounting control mechanisms and how these interact with trust mechanisms. The means by which formal controls can both complement and substitute for trust are outlined, with the implications for law, accounting and organisational practitioners identified.

Keywords: inter-organizational alliances, accounting, contracts, trust

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cuganesan, Suresh, Accounting, Contracts and Trust in Inter-Organizational Alliances (2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=913162 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.913162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,695
RANK
325,828
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies