Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Aspects Regarding Romanian Business Combinations in the Perspective of EU Adeshion

10 Pages Posted: 25 Jul 2006

Adriana Tiron Tudor

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Economics and Business Administration

Date Written: July 1, 2006

Abstract

The purpose of this research is in the introductory part to establish the position of Romanian business combinations (M&A) in the Central and Eastern European M&A market, them recent evolution and the investment climate, knowing that Romania experienced a dynamic growth in terms of both the number and volume of mergers and acquisitions deals. The content of the research will be focused on the types of business combination Romanian transactions: horizontal, between competing firms in the same industry, vertical, between firms in buyer-seller, client -supplier and value chain linkages and conglomerate, where the companies are unrelated businesses. Finally we will develop a comparative study between Romanian and European regulations in field of companies, competition, and accountability.

Keywords: Business combinations, mergers, acquisitions, groups of companies, EU regulations, Romanian regulations

JEL Classification: G24, G15, K20

Suggested Citation:

Tiron Tudor, Adriana, Aspects Regarding Romanian Business Combinations in the Perspective of EU Adeshion (July 1, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=918509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.918509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Dochia A-Corporate Governance In Romania , A Oecd Report Www.Oecd.Org Mutiu , Tiron Tudor , A Matis , D -
The convergence process of reporting financial statements -the milestone in developing international reporting
Szent Istvan Egyetem , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , p. 27 - 32 Posted: 2004
Financial Reporting In Romania -www.ey.com PWC Central & Eastern European Survey Posted: 2002
Crossref
Tiron Tudor , A Mutiu , A
-Problems faced and solutions developed during the implementation of IAS/IFRSRomanian Experience, First Annual International Accounting Conference, Istambul Turkey, Accounting Academicians Collaboration Foundation of Turkey Posted: 2004
Tiron Tudor , A Pop , C Mutiu , A
Disclosure-a key problem for Bucharest Stock Exchange listed companies
Szent Istvan Egyetem , Conference Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,174
RANK
434,536
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies