Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Testing the Theory of Cultural Influence on International Accounting Practice

MGSM Working Paper No. 2006-9

13 Pages Posted: 14 Oct 2006

Nigel Finch

Saki Partners

Date Written: October 2006

Abstract

The issue of cultural influence in explaining behaviour in social systems has been recognised for some time, however its impact on accounting as a social system is a more recent field of study. This paper will examine the theory of cultural influence on the international practice of accounting and critique the research methodologies used to test this theory.

Keywords: cultural influence

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Finch, Nigel, Testing the Theory of Cultural Influence on International Accounting Practice (October 2006). MGSM Working Paper No. 2006-9 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=937249 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.937249
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
N Baydoun , R Willett
Cultural relevance of western accounting systems to developing countries. Abacus , volume 31 , p. 67 - 92 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Chanchani , A Macgregor
A synthesis of cultural studies in accounting
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 18 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 1999
T S Doupnik , G T Tsakumis
A Critical Review of the Tests of Gray's Theory of Cultural Relevance and Suggestions for Future Research
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 23 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2004
I A Eddie
Asia Pacific cultural values and accounting systems
Asia Pacific International Management Forum , volume 16 , p. 22 - 30 Posted: 1990
Load more
1 Citations
Silke Klara Waterstraat
Cultural Significance on Accounting: Challenging Hofstede's Uncertainty Scale in the Hofstede-Gray-Framework
21 Pages · Posted: 10 Jul 2011 · Downloads: 389
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,323
RANK
37,174
1 Citations
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transparency, Financial Accounting Information, and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

Financial Accounting Information and Corporate Governance

By Robert M. Bushman and Abbie J. Smith

What Determines Corporate Transparency?

By Robert M. Bushman, Joseph D. Piotroski, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies