Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CPA Sanction and Audit Quality

Posted: 16 Sep 2008

Chien-Heng Jennifer Chang

Tamkang University - Department of Accounting

Wen-Ching Chang

National Changhua University of Education

Ling-Tai Lynette Chou

National Chengchi University (NCCU) - College of Commerce

Chia-Lee Teng

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 9, 2007

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate into the appropriateness and effectiveness of CPA sanction system in Taiwan. We hypothesize that (1) if sanctioned auditors show generally lower audit quality, the sanction system is considered appropriate; and (2) if audit quality is improved after the sanction, the system is deemed effective. We use discretionary accruals to surrogate audit quality and examine the empirical data of other public company audit clients (i.e., excluding the clients of the sanction cases) of all sanctioned CPAs. The results find that almost every one out of two sanctioned CPAs shows a lower level of audit quality, amongst them four cases reach significance level. In addition, the audit quality of disqualified CPAs is significantly lower than their unsanctioned counterparts. The evidence to some extent supports the appropriateness of the sanction system. To assess the effectiveness of the system, we measure the variation of audit quality before and after the sanction whether the auditors have been changed. The results, though inconsistent, reveal that the auditor sanction system in Taiwan does not significantly improve audit quality. But the succeeding auditors generally become even more conservative, that is, reduce income-increasing discretionary accruals and intensify income-decreasing discretionary accruals.

Keywords: CPA sanction, Disciplinary actions, Audit quality, Auditor change

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Chien-Heng Jennifer and Chang, Wen-Ching and Chou, Ling-Tai Lynette and Teng, Chia-Lee, CPA Sanction and Audit Quality (January 9, 2007). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=968302
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,876
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies