Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash versus Accrual Accounting Measures in Greek Municipalities: Proxies or Not for Decision-Making?

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Fothcoming

Posted: 19 Nov 2007 Last revised: 28 Nov 2011

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: September 17, 2009

Abstract

The scope of this paper is to compare accrual accounting information with that of cash accounting in terms of revenues, expenses and financial results in order to quantify their relationships. As cash figures in the Greek public sector still constitute the main basis for performance assessment and resource allocation decisions, we want to assess whether they eventually reflect a fair proxy of accrual measures that are deemed more suitable for these purposes. Our analysis is based on 370 municipality observations over the period 2002 to 2004. The data used is drawn from information presented in the publicly available municipalities’ accrual accounting financial statements and proprietary cash based information retrieved by the Ministry of Finance. The empirical findings of our study show that approximately 70% of the accrual revenues (expenses) figures can be explained on the basis of cash based revenues (expenses) as well as specific municipality socio-economic factors. Thus, although cash based revenues (expenses) seem to be significantly related to accrual-based revenues (expenses) they are by no means interchangeable. As a consequence, municipalities’ management and supervising authorities should be cautious when using cash based figures as a proxy for accruals for decision-making and performance assessment purposes. Our findings shed light on the long-lasting Greek public administration shortcomings that may have contributed to the public sector financial crisis that Greece has been experiencing since the end of 2009.

Keywords: Public sector accounting, Accrual accounting, Cash accounting, Municipalities, Greece

JEL Classification: M41, M47, M48, M49, L31

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra, Cash versus Accrual Accounting Measures in Greek Municipalities: Proxies or Not for Decision-Making? (September 17, 2009). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Fothcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1031089
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,555
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies