Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fund Accounting and Capital Budgeting: The Dutch Experience

Public Budgeting and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 26-46, Spring 1996

Posted: 11 Dec 2007

M. Peter van der Hoek

Erasmus University; Ternopil National Economic University; DOFIN

Abstract

Budgets have to meet a number of principles in order to fulfil their functions properly. This paper focuses on two of these budget principles. First, it addresses the principle of unity and universalism. More in particular, it discusses the issue of earmarking receipts. It is concluded that most of the perceived benefits of special fund accounting do not occur in practice. Second, the paper deals with the principle of an efficient division of the budget. It is concluded that the credibility of the main argument for a capital budget, being that it reinforces the allocation function of the budget, is questionable.

Keywords: Budget principles, special fund accounting, capital budget, Netherlands

JEL Classification: H6, H61

Suggested Citation:

van der Hoek, M. Peter, Fund Accounting and Capital Budgeting: The Dutch Experience. Public Budgeting and Financial Management, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp. 26-46, Spring 1996, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1069822
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,293
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Public Law: National eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies