Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managing the Budget: The Dutch Experience

Public Budgeting and Financial Management, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 399-417, 1991

Posted: 14 Dec 2007

M. Peter van der Hoek

Erasmus University; Ternopil National Economic University; DOFIN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

This paper deals with attempts that were made in the Netherlands to improve control of public expenditure since the mid-1970s. It seems useful to distinguish between control in the short run and control in the longer run. In the Netherlands expenditures are budgeted and accounted for mainly on a cash basis. More emphasis has only recently been put on commitments. As cash outlays result from commitments concluded in the past, in-year control focusing on cash outlays cannot be very effective. More important, therefore, is control in the longer run.

The instruments of longer term expenditure control introduced in the 1970s and 1980s can be classified into two categories: - based on decrementalism; - based on some form of re-evaluation. Instruments belonging to the second category are potentially most effective.

However, with the exception of the reconsideration procedure all longer term control instruments seem to have failed. Empirical evidence suggests that open-ended programs are no primary cause for the limited control and the resulting overruns. More important may be the existing political norms and values, which seem to prevent the control instruments from effectively being used.

Keywords: Budgeting, expenditure control instruments, Netherlands

Suggested Citation:

van der Hoek, M. Peter, Managing the Budget: The Dutch Experience. Public Budgeting and Financial Management, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 399-417, 1991, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1071165
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Project & Program Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies