Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Pathways for Stakeholder Engagement and Accountability: Universities in the United Kingdom and Their Donors

Presented to the Accounting and Finance Association of Australia and New Zealand Annual Conference, Sydney, Australia

20 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2008

Susan Ngan

The University of Western Australia

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: July 2008

Abstract

Universities world-wide experiencing reducing government financial support are seeking to satisfy financial shortfalls through alternative funding such as that from private contributors (especially alumni). When private corporations search for new funding streams, they turn to the internet, however the unregulated nature of internet reporting has brought calls for higher standards in internet reporting practices (e.g. IASC, 1999). Little is known about the use or quality of internet financial reporting by universities to attract private contributions or to account for the stewardship to current contributors.

The present research examined universities' current reporting practices, in order to understand more fully how contextual factors in the tertiary sector impact the availability and quality of universities' internet reporting. The research shows that the ease of accessibility of financial information on universities' websites is related to generic characteristics, such as the age and the financial status of universities. As well, quality of this unregulated internet financial varies widely.

The research expands on the relevant issues emerging from this unregulated environment and highlights gaps that exist between stakeholder's expectations and current internet practice. This study recommends improvements in the standard and quality of reporting in order for universities to discharge their accountability.

Keywords: Accountability, universities, tertiary sector internet financial reporting

JEL Classification: H40, M40, I20

Suggested Citation:

Ngan, susan and Cordery, Carolyn J. and Baskerville, Rachel F., Internet Pathways for Stakeholder Engagement and Accountability: Universities in the United Kingdom and Their Donors (July 2008). Presented to the Accounting and Finance Association of Australia and New Zealand Annual Conference, Sydney, Australia, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1151650
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
A T Ameen
The offspring of new public management in English universities
Public Management Review , volume 5 , p. 573 - 583 Posted: 2003
G Anderson
Carving out time and space in the managerial university
Journal of Organizational Change Management , volume 19 , p. 578 - 592 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Anon
Dons go a-begging
Economist , volume 377 , p. 56 - 57 Posted: 2005-04-07
Anon
University wealth, university endowments 2002-03', The Times Higher Education Supplement , volume 17 , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 2007-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
129
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,927
RANK
508,508
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies