Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Market Segmentation and the Association between Municipal Financial Disclosures and Net Interest Costs

Accounting Review, Vol. 67, No. 3, July 1992

17 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2008 Last revised: 28 Nov 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Earl R. Wilson

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: July 26, 2008

Abstract

We examined the association between financial disclosure and Net Interest Costs (NIC) in terms of finance studies that have suggested that the municipal bond market is segmented. Our results indicate that financial reporting measures are more strongly associated with NIC in the regional primary market (defined by the composition of the underwriting syndicate) than in the national markets.Slightly weaker but generally consistent results were obtained with alternative segmentation proxies-size of the city and size of the issue. One limitation of the study was the necessity to include in our sample hybrid syndicates consisting of both national and regional underwriters because of the small number of underwriting that occur in practice by syndicates comprised solely of national or regional firms.Nevertheless, our results suggest that syndicate leadership (whether managed by a national or regional underwriter) provides an adequate and perhaps conservative proxy for market segmentation

The results suggests that reporting quality is higher overall for municipalities operating in the national market but, since there are fewer alternative sources of relevant pricing information for bonds issued by smaller issuers, underwriters and investors in regional markets seem to react more strongly to variations in the quantity and quality of financial disclosure in pricing bonds. One implication is that smaller cities might improve marketability of their bonds by improving their financial reporting practices.

Finally, our findings suggest that researchers need to be sensitive to the institutional structures characterizing the municipal bond market. A logical extension of this study would be to identify other potentially segmented markets, such as the market for initial public offerings of corporate securities, which may also be characterized by informational differences (e.g, Feroz,Johnston, Reck and Wilson 2006). If other segmented markets exist, the usefulness of accounting information may also differ across markets, as appears to be the case for municipal bonds.




Keywords: tax exempt securities, municipal bonds, net interest costs, segmentation, government, political economy, information asymmetry, capital markets, market efficiency

JEL Classification: C12,G18, G20, G28, G38, H10, H11, H21, K33, L31, L32, L51, L81, M41, P16

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Wilson, Earl R., Market Segmentation and the Association between Municipal Financial Disclosures and Net Interest Costs (July 26, 2008). Accounting Review, Vol. 67, No. 3, July 1992, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1179264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Li Hui , Zhirong Jerry Zhao
Does Municipal Management Capacity Matter? Competitive Versus Negotiated Procurement in China's Public-Private Partnerships
Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy Research Paper No. 18-11 · 29 Pages · Posted: 27 Jun 2018 · Last revised: 5 Sep 2018 · Downloads: 134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stephanie F. Cheng , Christine Cuny , Hao Xue
Disclosure and Competition for Capital
Management Science, forthcoming · 51 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2019 · Last revised: 23 Nov 2022 · Downloads: 460
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kenneth N. Daniels
The GFOA Certificate Revisited: Excellence in Financial Reporting and the Costs and Benefits of High Disclosure
30 Pages · Posted: 21 May 2020 · Downloads: 52
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Christine Cuny , Ken Li , Anya Nakhmurina , Edward Watts
Muni Disclosure: All Talk and No Trade?
61 Pages · Posted: 18 Aug 2022 · Last revised: 15 May 2025 · Downloads: 511
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
162
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,375
RANK
420,621
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Reaction of Financial Analysts to Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Implementation Plans

By James E. Hunton, Ruth Ann Mcewen, ...

An Integrated Performance Model of Information Systems Projects

By Adel M. Aladwani

Review Paper: Critical Success Factors for ERP Implementation

By Mahyar Amini and Nazli Sadat Safavi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies