Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Accounting Measures and Mayoral Elections

Financial Accountability & Management, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 161-174, 1994

14 Pages Posted: 30 Jul 2008 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Earl R. Wilson

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: 1994

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between electoral outcomes and accounting measures at the city level. We use a larger sample, more recent time horizon, and different methodology to provide additional support for the relevance of accounting and financial measures for explaining mayoral election outcomes. Our evidence suggests that Ingram and Copeland (1981) results for mayor-council cities are generalizable to a different time period and different sample of cities, including those with a council-manager form of government. Our results, contrary to our expectations based on previous studies such as Baber (1993), also indicate that financial accounting measures are more relevant for cities characterized by low political competition than for those with high political competition.

Keywords: Elections, Financial Accounting, Debt, Political Competition, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C10, H10, L51, M4, P16

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H. and Wilson, Earl R., Financial Accounting Measures and Mayoral Elections (1994). Financial Accountability & Management, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 161-174, 1994 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1181282
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,491
RANK
425,064
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies