Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Theory and Accounting Rule Choice: An Analysis of the Four U.S. State Governments' Decisions to Adopt Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 26, No. 7 (Lead Article), pp. 565-596, 2001

33 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2008 Last revised: 12 Aug 2025

Vivian L. Carpenter

Atwater Entertainment

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: July 28, 2008

Abstract

This study applies institutional theory to examine how institutional pressures influenced four U.S. state governments' decisions to adopt or resist Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for external financial reporting. We identify resource dependency as a key coercive pressure driving early GAAP adoption. Resistance to GAAP was shaped by three factors: limited engagement of accounting bureaucrats in professional associations, organizational imprinting, and threats to existing power structures. States responded with varied strategies—compromise (New York, Michigan), defy (Ohio), and manipulate (Delaware)—but ultimately, institutional pressures prevailed. Our findings highlight the dynamic nature of institutional influence, shaped by evolving actors, beliefs, and contexts. This study contributes to institutional theory by demonstrating how accounting practices become institutionalized over time and underscores the importance of historical and longitudinal analysis in understanding public sector accounting rule choices. Keywords: Financial Accounting, Institutional Theory, Institutional Economics, Political Institutions, Resource Dependency, Strategy, Governments, Governance, GAAP, FASB, GASB, SEC, GAO, Organizational Theory, Organizational Change, Public Finance, Public Administration, Public Choice, Political Economy, USA JEL Classification: C93, E11, G18,G28, G38, H10, H11, H74, L30, L51, M40, M41, M49, P16, Z10.





Keywords: Financial Accounting, Institutional Theory, Institutional Economics, Political Institutions, Resource Dependency, Strategy, Governments, Governance, GAAP, FASB, GASB, SEC, GAO, Organizational Theory, Organizational Change, Public Finance, Public Administration, Public Choice, Political Economy, USA

JEL Classification: C93, E11, G18,G28, G38, H10, H11, H74, L30, L51, M40, M41, M49, P16, Z10.

Suggested Citation:

Carpenter, Vivian L. and Feroz, Ehsan H., Institutional Theory and Accounting Rule Choice: An Analysis of the Four U.S. State Governments' Decisions to Adopt Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (July 28, 2008). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 26, No. 7 (Lead Article), pp. 565-596, 2001, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1181802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,383
RANK
37,913
16 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Management Accounting as Practice

By Thomas Ahrens and Christopher S. Chapman

Corporatisation and Accounting Change: The Role of Accounting and Accountants in a Malaysian Public Utility

By Abu Kasim Nor-aziah and Robert William Scapens

Costing Information in the UK NHS: The (Non-) Use of Cost Information in the UK NHS Trust Hospitals

By Dila A. Agrizzi

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies