Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerialism, Accounting and Accountability in the Italian Local Governments: An Empirical Analysis

40 Pages Posted: 29 Jul 2008

Enrico Bracci

University of Ferrara

Date Written: July 29, 2008

Abstract

The paper aims to investigate the intricate relationship between accounting information systems, managerialism and accountability in Local Governments. The exploratory case study was conducted using a mix of method both qualitative and quantitative, in the context of a medium-size Italian municipality. The findings confirm that the quality of accounting information systems is central in the managerial development of an organisation, public but also private, and the presence of internally coherent systems of accountability. The technological and procedural slack of the AIS allows managers to develop their private information systems to fulfil also accountability obligations or needs. The uncontrolled introduction of the reforms brought about the development of conflicting forms of accountability, the search for internal and external legitimation by managers, to protect themselves from the political influence and the attempt to evaluate their performance. The paper provides interesting insights on the impact of accounting/managerial based public sector reforms on the inner functioning of Local Government, emphasising the risk of delivering changes not foreseen by the official aims.

Keywords: accounting information systems, accountability, managerialism, local government

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bracci, Enrico, Managerialism, Accounting and Accountability in the Italian Local Governments: An Empirical Analysis (July 29, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1184621 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1184621
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,194
RANK
160,317
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies