Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Paying the Price of the Failure to Retain Legitimacy in a National Charity: The CORSO Story

Victoria University Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 47

31 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008 Last revised: 13 Aug 2008

David Sutton

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Abstract

The Council for the Organisation of Relief Services Overseas (CORSO), established in 1944, was dedicated to the relief of poverty overseas. It was a New Zealand organisation which acted to co-ordinate the activities of different national bodies; all of whom shared a vision of working towards such relief of the poverty. CORSO's primary vision for such relief being organised "under one umbrella" attracted 50 member organisations by 1967. Legitimacy theory provides an undemanding theoretical frame for early CORSO. It also explains the period of crisis in relation to reduced legitimacy when, in the 1960s, CORSO began to focus increasingly on development to build foundations for impoverished peoples overseas to gain greater self-reliance. This change in strategic direction was insufficiently communicated to the general public, though it was generally accepted within the organisation.

From the 1970s the increased politicisation of society impacted on CORSO's membership, and Maori radicals became prominent in CORSO along with "leftist" individuals and groups. The early strong coalition was progressively replaced with divisiveness from the mid-1970s amid growing public mistrust of CORSO; as it changed from an apolitical body to one increasingly focused on issues from an anti-capitalist stance. Polarisation and the subsequent consequences are similar to other not-for-profit coalitions.

Deterioration in budgeting was concomitant with CORSO's declining Appeal proceeds. Without suggesting a central role for accounting in CORSO's decline, the correlation of robust or deficient accounting processes respectively with economic good and poor health appears positive. Until the late 1960s, evidence indicates a robust accounting process which subsequently deteriorated, from the 1975 Treasurer's Report onwards. In examining CORSO's decline from 1970, until its "functional death" in 1991, the causes of this decline provide a valuable illustration of the importance of political independence and integrity for charitable organisations' survival.

The data for this study is derived from primary and secondary sources including newspaper articles, annual reports, correspondence and opinion surveys. This research also analyses accounting data, evidencing a correlation of robust or deficient accounting processes respectively with economic excellent or poor health. To this extent the accounting data provides a "bio-marker" of organisational health.

Key to CORSO's demise was a change in strategic direction brokered by governing members which resulted in a philosophical shift unsupported by many of its core orthodox member bodies, with 'fatal' consequences. CORSO from 1990 was not a broad-based coalition, but survives as a persistent, yet impaired, brand name employed by a small coalition of socialists and Maori radicals. CORSO failed to erect barriers to capture, or to recognise it. This historic perspective on the demise of such a giant in New Zealand charities provides a clear illustration of a failure to sense and adapt sufficiently to its dynamic political landscape, and illustrates how the not-for-profit sector is more dependant than other sectors on continuing legitimisation processes in its implicit contract with the society to which it offers its vision.

Keywords: M40, H40, L29

JEL Classification: CORSO. charity, New Zealand, Muldoon, accountability

Suggested Citation:

Sutton, David and Cordery, Carolyn J. and Baskerville, Rachel F., Paying the Price of the Failure to Retain Legitimacy in a National Charity: The CORSO Story. Victoria University Centre for Accounting, Governance and Taxation Research Working Paper No. 47, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1199522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1199522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,577
RANK
649,413
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Social & Political Philosophy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies