Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charity Financial Reporting Regulation: A Comparative Study of the UK and New Zealand

Accounting History, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 7-27, January 2007

22 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2008 Last revised: 15 Aug 2008

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Charities are becoming more highly regulated worldwide and yet they are subject to diverse, country-specific, financial reporting standards. New Zealand is a jurisdiction that has treated all sectors alike in its approach to the financial regulation of charities, while the UK has, for some time, separated the regulation of charities from other entities. This article provides a comparison of the histories of the evolution of regulation for charity reporting in the UK and New Zealand. The current process of international harmonization in both jurisdictions is premised on the principle that accounting conceptual frameworks should not be jurisdiction-specific, but charities have proved to be an exception. We suggest in this study that this exception is attributed to different drivers resulting in regulatory distinctions in two otherwise similar jurisdictions. Without persisting in the maintenance of sector-neutrality, the inevitable divergence increases the load on preparers, attesters, and users and may lead to lower levels of accountability and transparency.

Keywords: Charity regulation, financial reporting, New Zealand, Charity Commission

JEL Classification: L30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Baskerville, Rachel F., Charity Financial Reporting Regulation: A Comparative Study of the UK and New Zealand (2007). Accounting History, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 7-27, January 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1204714
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
239
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,989
RANK
292,525
3 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Sector-Neutral Accounting Standards: A Ten-year Experiment

By Michael E. Bradbury and Rachel F. Baskerville

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies