Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Group Participation in Governmental Accounting Standards Setting: A Cluster Analysis

Public Administration Quarterly, Vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 470-485, Winter 1986

11 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2008 Last revised: 4 Dec 2018

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 1986

Abstract

This article content analyzed the participation data with respect to the four Governmental Accounting Standards Board Organization Committee (GASBOC) recommendations.It focused on the GASBOC Exposure Draft 1981 in order to examine the level of agreement (disagreement) between the GASBOC recommendations and the expressed preferences in the comment letters of the constituents. While there are various modes of participation, the present study is confined to the textual analysis of the written submissions made by various groups. Some modes of participation, such as subtle influence upon the decision makers, can be real, but not easily susceptible to empirical verification. In that sense, this study might have dealt with the more obvious, but not necessarily the most important modes of participation that are readily identifiable.

The pyramidic nature of participation with respect to the four GASBOC recommendations generally conforms to the expectations that, out of the total spectrum of interest groups, only a subset will take an interest in the process of accounting standards setting (Feroz, 1982). From a rational perspective, non-participation means an indifference stemming from well articulated negative utilities of participation. Ontologically, the non-participating subsets could be an important object of study. However, these subsets cannot be identified unless they make their preferences manifested in an observable form.

Of the groups participating, the local and state government officials (MFO and SGO) and accounting academics (AA) seem to have a more favorable view of the changes in governmental accounting than the rest of the constituents. Accounting academics have generally been considered to be 'change agents' in the accounting profession.Their favorable view of the GASBOC recommendations further reaffirms their progressive orientation. State and local government officials have long been arguing a case of the uniqueness of governmental accounting as distinct from corporate accounting. An independent GASB with an identity separate from the FASB generally reinforces the case of governmental accountants for their separate identity. .

The clustering of the local and state government officials and accounting academics, with the exception of legendary Robert Anthony, on the one side, and the auditors and the FASB on the other side, generally indicates a lack of consensus among the GASB constituents. Success of the GASB in years to come will depend to some extent upon how persuasively it responds to the groups that were in various levels of agreement (disagreement) with the GASBOC recommendations. In general group support for (or opposition to) the GASB policy initiatives is likely to be issue-specific and transitory. In other words, the very same groups that supported (opposed) the GASBOC recommendations could find themselves in disagreement (agreement) with GASB on some other issues in the future.

Finally, the findings of this study are strictly based upon the population of respondents which may not represent all interests or groups that might be potentially interested in GASB. The delicate balance between support for and opposition to the GASBOC recommendations could very well change if one could incorporate all conceivable interests and groups that might be interested in GASB.To the extent that this failure biases the findings, the conclusions are tentative and partial.



.



Keywords: Government, Governmental Accounting, GASB, Lobby, Political Economy, Comment Letters, Textual Analysis, Content Analysis, Clusters, Regulation, Political Economy

JEL Classification: H10, H11, L30, L31, L51, M40, M41, M49, P16

Suggested Citation:

Feroz, Ehsan H., Group Participation in Governmental Accounting Standards Setting: A Cluster Analysis (1986). Public Administration Quarterly, Vol. 9, No. 4, pp. 470-485, Winter 1986, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1213356
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,261
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,549
RANK
27,906
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies