Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Value and Charitable Organizations

33 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2008 Last revised: 13 May 2009

Karen A. Kitching

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

I examine whether donors favor charities that use high quality auditors and whether the propensity to donate varies directly with audit quality. I find that audit quality affects donor decisions in the market for contributions. From a signaling perspective, charities benefit simply from engaging a higher quality auditor. From an information perspective, donors are more sensitive to changes in reported accounting information verified by a high quality auditor.

I also add to the economic literature that examines the demand for giving by investigating the impact of a charity’s reputation on the price elasticity of donations. As expected, I find that donors are more sensitive to the price of contributing for more reputable charities. After conditioning on reputation, however, I find donors are still willing to give more to charities aligned with a quality auditor, but the information effect of audit quality choice dissipates with the size of the charity. Thus, a charity’s reputation and the choice of auditor are substitute mechanisms for signaling the credibility of financial information to donors.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Nonprofits, Auditor Choice, Charities

JEL Classification: M49, L30

Suggested Citation:

Kitching, Karen A., Audit Value and Charitable Organizations (May 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1218402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1218402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
381
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,011
RANK
178,213
9 Citations
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

By Christine Petrovits, Catherine Shakespeare, ...

Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

By Gregory D. Saxton, Daniel Neely, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies