Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Bargain between the Elite and the Majority to Control Politicians and Managers: Party and Managerial Ideologies as Devices to Align Agents

48 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2008 Last revised: 14 Sep 2008

Wayne Eastman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Supply Chain Management Department

Deirdre M. Collier

Fairleigh Dickinson University - Silberman College of Business; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: September 3, 2008

Abstract

How can office-seeking politicians or managers be aligned with social welfare or firm welfare, given that such agents have a suboptimal incentive to cater to majority preferences in situations with low participation costs and to elite preferences in situations with high participation costs? In the for-profit firm, the primary elite-majority bargain to reduce agency costs involves the creation of an electorate of shareholders who as residual claimants are better aligned with firm welfare than other groups. In democratic politics, where there is no comparable group of residual claimants who are aligned to social welfare, an efficient elite-majority bargain involves the creation of competing party ideologies that serve to check opportunism by majorities in low participation-cost scenarios and by elites in high participation-cost scenarios, and in doing so align politicians with social welfare. In non-profit firms that also lack a residual claimant, an efficient elite-majority bargain involves a parallel creation of managerial ideologies. Such managerial ideologies may also have utility in the for-profit firm as a supplementary device to foster alignment with firm value.

Keywords: transaction costs, allocative efficiency, altruism, models of political processes, conflict, conflict resolution, alliances, asymmetric & private info, corporate governance, structure & performance of gov't, general legal, corporate culture

JEL Classification: D23, D61, D64, D72, D74, D82, G34, H11, K40, M14

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Wayne and Collier, Deirdre M. and Collier, Deirdre M., The Bargain between the Elite and the Majority to Control Politicians and Managers: Party and Managerial Ideologies as Devices to Align Agents (September 3, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1262905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1262905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
D Acemoglu
Why not a political Coase theorem? Social conflict, commitment, and politics
Journal of Comparative Economics , volume 31 Posted: 2003
Crossref
D Acemoglu , J A Robinson
Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy Posted: 2006
G A Akerlof
The Missing Motivation in Macroeconomics
Econometrica , volume 75 Posted: 2007
Crossref
E Anderson
Value in Ethics and Economics Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,234
RANK
451,566
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies