Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Capital and the Growth of the Nonprofit Sector

Social Science Quarterly, Vol. 86, No. 1, pp. 16-35, 2005

32 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2011 Last revised: 12 Jan 2011

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Michelle Benson

State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: March 26, 2005

Abstract

The extent to which nonprofit organizations are created by various forms of social capital is examined. Data are developed from the Social Capital Community Benchmark Survey, the Internal Revenue Service''s "charitable organization" Business Master Files, and other federal data sources. The number of nonprofit organizations founded in 284 U.S. counties in the year 2001 was analyzed, along six dimensions of social capital: "bridging" social ties, political engagement, giving and volunteering, civic engagement, informal socializing, and social trust.Two core dimensions - political engagement and bridging social ties - have a major impact on county-level nonprofit organization creation.A key element of social capital in the literature - the level of interpersonal trust - does not lead to an increase in development of new not-for-profit organizations. Findings reinforce the evidence of the strength of political contacts and bridging ties for the vitality of the community.The various dimensions of social capital do not have a uniform effect on nonprofit sector growth at the community level.The growth of a community''s not-for-profit sector is dependent on a mix of ecological and environmental factors that include pre-existing organizational density, median household income, unemployment, and levels of government spending.

Keywords: National Center for Charitable Statistics, Social Capital Community Benchmaking Survey, IRS Business Master Files, U.S. Bureau of the Census, Community organizations, Not-for-profit organizations, Social capital, Startups

Suggested Citation:

Saxton, Gregory D. and Benson, Michelle, Social Capital and the Growth of the Nonprofit Sector (March 26, 2005). Social Science Quarterly, Vol. 86, No. 1, pp. 16-35, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1262864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Rikki Abzug , Joy K Turnheim
Bandwagon or Band-Aid? A Model of Nonprofit Incorporation by State
Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 273 , p. 300 - 322 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Paul S Adler , Seok-Woo Kwon
Social Capital: Prospects For A New Concept
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , p. 17 - 40 Posted: 2002
Crossref
W Baker
Market Networks and Corporate Behavior
American Journal of Sociology , volume 96 , p. 589 - 625 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Avner Ben-Ner , Theresa Van Hoomissen
The Growth of the Nonprofit Sector in the 1980s: Facts and Interpretation
Nonprofit Management and Leadership , volume 1 , p. 99 - 116 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,882
RANK
371,877
4 Citations
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Property, Citizenship, & Social Entrepreneurism eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Trust in China: A Cross-Regional Analysis

By Weiying Zhang and Rongzhe Ke

Social Capital in Urban China: Attitudinal and Behavioral Effects on Grassroots Self-Government

By Jie Chen and Chunlong Lu

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies