Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Donors Discount Low Quality Accounting Information?

Accounting Review, May 2013, Volume 88, No. 3, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Sep 2008 Last revised: 22 Mar 2013

Michelle Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Robert J. Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Abstract

Prior research finds that donors reward nonprofits that report larger program ratios with more donations and that managers overstate these ratios, ostensibly to attract donations. We examine how donors react to inflated ratios. We find that the average donor discounts ratios that are inflated by only the simplest and most observable of methods. We then examine the effect of financial data availability on the average donor’s ability to unravel inflated ratios by using the historical shift in data availability that occurred in 1997 and 1998. We find that donors began to discount ratios only after 1998. Finally, we examine whether the discount applied to program ratios varies across donor sophistication (measured as the percentage of fund balances with restrictions) and find that sophisticated donors apply incrementally larger discounts to inflated ratios and discount ratios that are inflated by more complex methods.

Note: Previously titled "Are Donors Misled by Low Quality Financial Reports?"

Keywords: nonprofit organizations, program ratios, fundraising expenses, IRS 990, Taxpayer Bill of Rights 2, financial reporting quality, regulation, cost shifting, agency problems, donor sophistication

JEL Classification: G18, G34, G38, L30, L31, M41, M43, M48

Suggested Citation:

Yetman, Michelle and Yetman, Robert, Do Donors Discount Low Quality Accounting Information?. Accounting Review, May 2013, Volume 88, No. 3, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1268582 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1268582
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies