Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Public Sector Annual Reports and Annual Reporting Awards as a Signal of Management Performance

25 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2012

Christine Merle Ryan

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Keitha L. Dunstan

Bond University - School of Business

Jennet Brown

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 8, 2008

Abstract

Australian public sector reforms have emphasised the accountability of agencies for the performance of management. Despite considerable diversity in public sector organisations, annual reports have been promoted as an appropriate tool to discharge the accountability of all government agencies. However, there remains an absence of consistent empirical evidence as to the value of the annual report for reporting on management performance. Further, debates about the role of public sector annual reports often become intertwined with notions of the quality of reports. Prior research has investigated the incentives of agencies to enter annual reporting awards as a means of signalling the quality of management. However, the research ignores the possibility that the value of annual reports to discharge performance accountability and the value of entry into an annual reporting award may vary depending on the type of public sector agency and on the relationships between stakeholders.

This study focuses on the Queensland public sector and the Queensland Annual Reporting Award (QARA) and uses a series of case studies to examine the value of the annual report as a means of discharging accountabilities. The results reveal a cross sectional variation in the perceived value of the annual report in discharging accountabilities. In some cases it was thought that alternative forms of communication provided a more suitable means to discharge the accountability demands of stakeholders. Further, while annual reporting awards provide a mechanism to supply a credible signal of quality, it will only be used in those situations where the participants identify direct benefits of entry.

Suggested Citation:

Ryan, Christine Merle and Dunstan, Keitha L. and Brown, Jennet, The Value of Public Sector Annual Reports and Annual Reporting Awards as a Signal of Management Performance (October 8, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1281167 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1281167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Australian Bureau of Statistics. Queensland Pocket Year Book
ABS , issue 47 Posted: 1996
R Burrit , S Welch
Accounting for environmental performance of the Australian Commonwealth public sector
Accounting,Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 532 - 561 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R H Cheng
An Empirical Analysis of Theories on Factors Influencing State Government Accounting Disclosure
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 11 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R H Cheng
A Politico-Economic Model of Government Accounting Policy Choice
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 8 , p. 39 - 68 Posted: 1994
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,868
RANK
454,090
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies