Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measurement in Not-for-Profit Governance: An Empirical Study of the Minnesota Independent School Districts

Annals of Operation Research, January 22, 2011 (online)

25 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2008 Last revised: 8 Jan 2019

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: June 1, 2008

Abstract

Linearity and separability assumptions are pervasive in most not-for-profit governance and performance measurement systems. In this paper, we employ both parametric and nonparametric econometric methodologies to test the linearity and separability assumptions using data collected from the Minnesota Independent School Districts. Our test results reject both the assumptions for the Minnesota independent school districts. These findings suggest a need to develop alternative procedures that do not rely on these two pervasive assumptions if the information provided by not-for-profit performance measurement systems is to be relevant for governance decision making and performance evaluation.

Keywords: Performance Measurement, Not- for-Profit Governance, Linearity, Input Separability, School District Financing, Political Economy

JEL Classification: C44, C61, C67, D61, G18, G30, H10, I22, L30, L31, L51,M40, M41, M49, P16

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Chang, Hsihui and Feroz, Ehsan H., Performance Measurement in Not-for-Profit Governance: An Empirical Study of the Minnesota Independent School Districts (June 1, 2008). Annals of Operation Research, January 22, 2011 (online), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1284679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
R D Banker
Maximum likelihood, consistency and data envelopment analysis
Management Science , p. 1265 - 1273 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R D Banker , H Johnston
An empirical study of cost drivers in the US airline industry
The Accounting Review , p. 576 - 601 Posted: 1993
R D Banker , A Charnes , W W Cooper
Models for the estimation of technical and scale inefficiencies in data envelopment analysis
Management Science , volume 30 , p. 1078 - 1092 Posted: 1984
Crossref
R D Banker , I Hwang , B Mishra
Product costing and pricing under long-term capacity commitment
Journal of Management Accounting Research Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
217
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,358
RANK
321,490
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Reallocation, Firm Turnover, and Efficiency: Selection on Productivity or Profitability?

By Lucia Foster, John Haltiwanger, ...

Reallocation, Firm Turnover, and Efficiency: Selection on Productivity or Profitability?

By Lucia Foster, John Haltiwanger, ...

Measuring and Explaining Management Practices Across Firms and Countries

By Nicholas Bloom and John Van Reenen

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies