Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How CFO's Determine Management Accounting Innovation: An Examination of Direct and Indirect Effects

European Accounting Review, Vol.18, No. 4, pp. 667-695

55 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2008 Last revised: 6 Mar 2011

David Naranjo-Gil

Pablo de Olavide University

Victor S. Maas

University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Business School

Frank G. H. Hartmann

Radboud University Nijmegen - Institute for Management Research

Date Written: January 6, 9

Abstract

Although management accounting innovations such as Activity-Based Costing, the Balanced Scorecard and benchmarking have received much academic interest in recent years, our understanding of why some organizations adopt and implement such new management accounting systems (MAS) and others do not, is still underdeveloped. This paper contributes to the literature by examining the role of the CFO in MAS innovation. We hypothesize that individual differences between CFO's are predictive of organizations' use of innovative MAS. In addition, we propose that CFO characteristics moderate the extent to which organizations rationally adapt to (environmental) contingencies. To examine this second prediction we compare the effects of strategy and historical performance on the adoption of innovative MAS for organizations with different types of CFO's. We test our hypotheses using a combination of archival and survey data from the public healthcare sector in Spain. Our results are generally supportive of our hypotheses.

Keywords: Management accounting innovation, management accounting change, upper echelon theory, strategy, performance, balanced scorecard, activity-based costing, benchmarking, healthcare industry, hospitals

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47, M48

Suggested Citation:

Naranjo-Gil, David and Maas, Victor S. and Hartmann, Frank G. H., How CFO's Determine Management Accounting Innovation: An Examination of Direct and Indirect Effects (January 6, 9). European Accounting Review, Vol.18, No. 4, pp. 667-695, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1296723
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
8 Citations
Barbara Voussem , Utz Schäffer , Denis Schweizer
Top Management Turnover Under the Influence of Activist Investors
Forthcoming, Journal of Management and Governance · 50 Pages · Posted: 5 Sep 2015 · Downloads: 113
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Jinghui Sun , Pamela Kent , Baolei Qi , Jiwei Wang
Chief Financial Officer Demographic Characteristics and Fraudulent Financial Reporting in China
Accounting & Finance, Vol. 59, Issue 4, pp. 2705-2734, 2019 · 30 Pages · Posted: 19 Mar 2020 · Downloads: 4
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
David Alexander Uhde , Patricia Klarner , Anja Tuschke
Board Monitoring of the Chief Financial Officer: A Review and Research Agenda
Corporate Governance: An International Review, Vol. 25, Issue 2, pp. 116-133, 2017 · 18 Pages · Posted: 19 May 2020 · Downloads: 33
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Chiara Oppi , Cristina Campanale , Lino Cinquini , Emidia Vagnoni
Clinicians and Accounting: A Systematic Review and Research Directions
Financial Accountability & Management, Vol. 35, Issue 3, pp. 290-312, 2019 · 23 Pages · Posted: 20 May 2020 · Downloads: 8
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
939
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,972
RANK
57,082
8 Citations
119 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship, Innovation, & Growth eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effects of Uncertainty on the Roles of Controllers and Budgets: An Exploratory Study

By Frank G. H. Hartmann and Victor S. Maas

Performance Measurement System Design in Joint Strategy Settings

By Anne M. Lillis and Paula Dirks

What the Right Hand is Doing: Academic and Practitioner Perceptions of the Research-Practice Gap in Management Accounting

By Basil P. Tucker

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies