Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Line Item Budgeting and Production Efficiency

Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 7, Issue 1, Fall 2011,pp. 108-126

31 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2008 Last revised: 20 Feb 2018

Rajiv D. Banker

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Hsihui Chang

Drexel University

Ehsan H. Feroz

University of Washington Tacoma, Milgard School of Business-Accounting ; University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Government of the United States of America - US GAO Advisory Council; University of Minnesota Duluth, Labovitz School of Business-Department of Accounting; University of Minnesota, Carlson School of Management-Department of Accounting; Baruch College, City University of New York; The State University of New York at Buffalo

Date Written: November 13, 2008

Abstract

Line item budgeting is a widely used managerial control device in governmental and nonprofit organizations. In this study, we explicitly model the relationship between input quantities and their prices with particular focus on the line item budgeting assumption of input separability, i.e., optimal quantity for each input is determined separately and independently of other inputs. Our empirical results support input separability and reject input substitutability.

Keywords: Line item budgeting, production efficiency, governments, nonprofits, school districts, Political Economy

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M48, C44, C67, D61, G34, I22, L30,L31, L51, P16

Suggested Citation:

Banker, Rajiv D. and Chang, Hsihui and Feroz, Ehsan H., Line Item Budgeting and Production Efficiency (November 13, 2008). Journal of Theoretical Accounting Research, Volume 7, Issue 1, Fall 2011,pp. 108-126, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1300724 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1300724
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,083
RANK
121,421
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies