Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Optimal Human Investment Allocation: A Note on Government Spending and Labor-Leisure Choice

4 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2008

Wempi Saputra

Nagoya University - Graduate School of Economics; Working Group for Technology Transfer (WGTT)

Date Written: November 14, 2008

Abstract

This paper presents an analysis of government spending and optimal human investment allocation rate in the two sector model of an endogenous growth (education and good sectors), by comparing solutions between social planner maximization problem and decentralized competitive equilibrium, and by considering two types of utility functions: the Constant Inter-temporal Elasticity of Substitution (CIES) and the Constant Elasticity of Substitution (CES) with labor-leisure choice. The results show that the optimal rate of human investment allocation depends on the elasticity of inter-temporal substitution in which it describes insignificant changes when we use CIES or CES. Moreover, the optimal rate of human investment allocation both in social planner as well as decentralized competitive equilibrium are equivalent which suggest that Pareto optimum is prevailed

Keywords: Human capital, endogenous growth, government spending

JEL Classification: O21, O41

Suggested Citation:

Saputra, Wempi and Saputra, Wempi, Optimal Human Investment Allocation: A Note on Government Spending and Labor-Leisure Choice (November 14, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1301402 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1301402
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
R A Araujo
Optimal human investment allocation
Economics Letters , volume 85 , p. 71 - 76 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Barro
Government Spending in Simple Model of Endogenous Growth
Journal of Political Economy , volume 98 , p. 103 - 125 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R Barro , Xavier Sala , -I-Martin
Public Finance in Models of Economic Growth
Review of Economic Studies , volume 59 , p. 645 - 661 Posted: 1992
Crossref
R Barro , Xavier Sala , -I-Martin
Economic Growth Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,061
RANK
576,212
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Distributive Politics and Economic Growth

By Alberto F. Alesina and Dani Rodrik

Is Inequality Harmful for Growth? Theory and Evidence

By Torsten Persson and Guido Tabellini

Why Did the West Extend the Franchise? Inequality and Growth in Historical Perspective

By Daron Acemoglu and James A. Robinson

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies