Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Firm Location Decisions, Regional Grants and Agglomeration Externalities

Advanced Institute of Management Research Paper No. 038

42 Pages Posted: 29 Nov 2008

Rachel Griffith

Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); University of Manchester; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Michael P. Devereux

Centre for Business Taxation, Oxford University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute); Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS); Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR); University of Oxford - Said Business School; University of Oxford - Said Business School

Helen Simpson

CMPO; Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS)

Date Written: May 28, 2006

Abstract

We examine whether discretionary government grants influence the location of new plants. Grants have a small effect in attracting plants to specific geographic areas, but their effectiveness increases with agglomeration externalities, measured by the number of other plants in that location in the same industry. We also find evidence that regional industrial structure affects the location of new entrants: firms in more agglomerated industries locate new plants near to others in the same industry, and firms are also attracted to industrially diversified locations. Foreign multinationals locate new plants near to other foreign-owned plants in the same industry.

Suggested Citation:

Griffith, Rachel and Devereux, Michael P. and Simpson, Helen, Firm Location Decisions, Regional Grants and Agglomeration Externalities (May 28, 2006). Advanced Institute of Management Research Paper No. 038, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,096
RANK
330,157
36 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Agglomeration, Integration and Tax Harmonization

By Richard E. Baldwin and Paul R. Krugman

Agglomeration, Integration and Tax Harmonization

By Richard E. Baldwin and Paul R. Krugman

The Core-Periphery Model with Forward-Looking Expectations

By Richard E. Baldwin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies