Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Influencing Narrative Disclosure by Large UK Charities: Interview Evidence

22 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2008

Juliana Jetty

University of Glasgow - Department of Accounting and Finance

Vivien A. Beattie

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School

Date Written: November 27, 2008

Abstract

It is widely recognised that we currently have very little knowledge of what is reported outside the financial statements by UK charities and even less understanding of why it is reported. This represents a crucial gap in our knowledge, since accounting narratives have become a major element in the reporting model, in both business and the charity sector. The publication of the most recent Charity SORP (2005) promotes the importance of narratives within the Trustees' Annual Report. This paper, therefore, presents a timely investigation of the narrative disclosure practices and its drivers by UK charities through a set of interviews with the finance directors of a small sample of large fund-raising and grant-making charities. The paper provides a preliminary analysis of a set of interviews with the finance directors of these charities, which investigate the drivers of such disclosure. Findings suggest that, although their annual report and annual reviews are channels of communicating information to all types of stakeholders, the charities appear to view the individual documents as having different disclosure purposes, e.g. in terms of their target audience and the motivations for such reports. A range of incentives and constraints that affect their decision to disclose (not disclose) specific information within their reports is identified - these factors relate, inter alia, to confidentiality, accountability, regulatory, transparency and marketability. It is expected that the full results of this study will help us understand the barriers to improving the transparency and accountability of charity reporting, thus supporting evidence-based policy-making (Buijink, 2006).

Keywords: Charity reporting, Disclosure, Grounded theory

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Jetty, Juliana and Beattie, Vivien, Factors Influencing Narrative Disclosure by Large UK Charities: Interview Evidence (November 27, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1308180 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1308180
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
I Abeysekera
Motivations Behind Human Capital Disclosure in Annual Reports
Accounting Forum , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 29 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Review of Narrative Reporting by UK Listed Companies in
Accounting Standards Board Posted: 2006
Improving Business Reporting -A Customer Focus: Meeting the Information Needs of Investors and Creditors, Comprehensive Report of the Special Committee on Financial Reporting (The Jenkins Report) Posted: 1994
Crossref
V Beattie , M Jones
An Empirical Study of Graphical Format Choices in Charity Annual Reports
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 10 , p. 215 - 236 Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
383
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,071
RANK
177,163
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Motivations Behind Human Capital Disclosure in Annual Reports

By Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies