Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Benefit Analysis of Watershed Development Programme: A Study of Bichhiwada Watershed Project, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India

18 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2008

Santosh Kumar Sahu

IIT Madras, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences

Date Written: December 10, 2006

Abstract

Following the Hanumanth Rao committee report Government of India initiated Watershed Development Programmes (WDPs) to improve and sustain productivity of the semiarid regions of the country at higher level. The aim of such initiatives are also to fulfill the needs of rural communities for food, fuel, fodder, and timber as majority of rural people are depending on the natural resource for their livelihood. WDPs are being given importance in the development plans for India and by donor agencies as they promote sustainable use of natural resources and improve the rural economy of India. This paper presents a social cost-benefit appraisal of a watershed development project in Rajasthan, India. The analysis has been done by the primary data collected from the Bichhiwada village and using Net Present Value (NPV), Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) and sensitivity analyses. The results show that if expected full benefits are realized, the benefits derived from the watershed project are quite high. The findings of this study suggest that watershed development projects initiated to improve the economy and ecology of India's dry and semiarid regions are economically viable and socially desirable.

Keywords: Watershed Development, Net Present Value, Cost Benefit Analysis, Sensitivity Analysis

JEL Classification: Q15, Q24, Q25, Q38

Suggested Citation:

Sahu, Santosh Kumar, Cost Benefit Analysis of Watershed Development Programme: A Study of Bichhiwada Watershed Project, Udaipur, Rajasthan, India (December 10, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1315762 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1315762
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
Source: Sevamandir Posted: 1998
Crossref
A Agrawal
Community and conservation: Beyond enchantment and disenchantment
International Forestry Resources and Institutions Posted: 1997
Chopra Kanchan , K Gopal , Kadekodi
Watershed development: A contrast with NREP/JRY
Economic and Political Weekly , volume 28 , issue 26 , p. 61 - 67 Posted: 1993
Chopra Kanchan
Evaluation of watershed management programmes in India: A review
Participatory Watershed Development: Challenges for the Twenty. First Century , p. 30 - 49 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
535
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,041
RANK
119,460
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Public Goods eJournal

Follow

Built Environment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies