Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is the Move to Accrual Based Accounting a Real Priority for Public Sector Accounting

Public Fund Digest, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2007

Posted: 19 Mar 2009

Andy Wynne

University of Leicester

Date Written: October 1, 2007

Abstract

Over the last 20 years, there have been sustained calls for governments to move towards accrual based accounting and to adopt private-sector-style financial statements. Indeed, this move has become some what of a trend or fashion and accrual accounting was described recently as the hero of the day at an academic conference on public sector financial reporting.

However, accrual accounting should not be considered in isolation, but as part of a package of reforms which have come to be known as New Pubic Management. Accrual accounting is not an end in itself, but rather, a means of shifting the emphasis of the budgetary process away from cash inputs, towards outputs and outcomes, in the hope that this will result in greater management efficiencies, and hence, better outcomes for governments and the communities they serve. The move to accrual accounting is primarily aimed at facilitating contestability or competition in the provision of public sector services. Thus it aims to allow comparisons of the current cost of providing the service with potential alternative providers of these services from either the public, not-for-profit or private sectors.

Keywords: accrual accounting, public sector

JEL Classification: N40

Suggested Citation:

Wynne, Andy, Is the Move to Accrual Based Accounting a Real Priority for Public Sector Accounting (October 1, 2007). Public Fund Digest, Vol. 6, No. 1, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1320219
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,883
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies