Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Performance Reforms and Non-Profit Human Services: 20 Years in Oregon

Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2009 Last revised: 8 Nov 2009

Janet Carlson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Alison Kelley

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Ken Smith

School Accountability Group

Date Written: October 6, 2009

Abstract

Performance measure reforms have greatly influenced the operations of government entities over the past two decades. This case study investigates the impact of these reforms on nonprofit human service organizations in Oregon, a state with a long history of performance activities. We pursue two research questions: (1) what impact did these reforms have upon the performance and capacity of the nonprofit entities; and (2) what is the impact of the reported performance on the funding decisions made by the state legislature. We observe substantial improvement in the performance of the nonprofit organizations as well as increased capacity for their future performance. Somewhat surprising, we also observe that funding for programs with common performance measures received large increases in funding while programs with unique measures were cut dramatically. We compare outcomes measurement from performance measurement, accounting, and evaluation perspectives and conclude with several suggestions for future research.

Keywords: government; performance measurement; accounting; evaluation; Oregon; human services

JEL Classification: D73, H72, L30

Suggested Citation:

Carlson, Janet and Kelley, Alison and Smith, Kenneth A., Government Performance Reforms and Non-Profit Human Services: 20 Years in Oregon (October 6, 2009). Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1324643 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1324643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
E Barman
What is the bottom line for nonprofit organizations? A history of measurement in the British voluntary sector , volume 18 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2007
R D Behn
The Psychological Barriers to Performance Management: Or Why Isn't Everyone Jumping on the Performance-Management Bandwagon? Public performance & management review , volume 26 , p. 5 - 25 Posted: 2002
Why measure performance? Different purposes require different measures
Public administration review , volume 63 , issue 5 , p. 586 - 606 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Benard
Fostering resiliency in kids: Protective factors in the family, school, and community Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
306
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,095
RANK
226,842
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

NGO & Non-Profit Organizations eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Performance Reporting by State Agencies: Bridging the Gap between Current Practice and GASB Suggested Criteria

By Ken Smith, Rita Hartung Cheng, ...

Improvements in City Government Performance Reporting

By Ken Smith and Ottalee Schiffel

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies