Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The NCAA, Tax Exemption and College Athletics

Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 08-08

61 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2009 Last revised: 8 Feb 2010

John D. Colombo

University of Illinois College of Law

Date Written: February 19, 2009

Abstract

The purpose of this article is two-fold. First, it will explain the concepts of federal tax-exemption law as they apply to the NCAA and to the universities operating Division I football and basketball programs. As the article indicates, current law makes it virtually impossible for the IRS to withdraw exemption either from the NCAA or universities operating major athletic programs. It is somewhat more plausible that the IRS could tax revenues from Division I college athletics under the UBIT, although even that course of action would have to scale considerable legal hurdles. Moreover, even if the IRS applied the UBIT to big-time athletic revenues, this course of action likely would end up largely a "paper tiger" because the evidence suggests that virtually none of these programs would have taxable net income in the tax accounting sense after applying appropriate cost accounting. Of course, the law can be changed; Congress could certainly attach particular conditions to tax exemption for the NCAA or universities conducting Division I basketball and football programs if it desired. The second part of this article, therefore, examines the tax policy issues raised by college athletics, particularly whether these programs fit within a theoretical paradigm that demands they be exempt from taxation, or whether instead big-time college athletics should be considered a sui generis exception to general tax policy. The reason this is important is that if major college football and basketball do not fit in any standard theoretical paradigm for exemption, then we should forthrightly recognize that continuing tax-favored treatment for these activities is an "exception" to general tax policy - much like a local community abating property taxes to induce a business to locate there. Such a conclusion, in turn, means that Congress could consider attaching special conditions to continuing tax exemption for the NCAA and universities engaged in big-time athletics without worrying about any damage to established tax policy or principles - in other words, this is the "hook" reformers can use to press their case. While the exact scope of these special conditions should be debated by experts in college athletics, I note in the final section of the article that there are precedents in tax law for (1) attaching conditions on the use of proceeds from an exempt activity (e.g., a requirement that big-time athletic revenues be used to subsidize other charitable outputs, such as increased athletic opportunities in non-revenue sports or for women); (2) expenditure limits such as caps on coaching salaries, and (3) expanded disclosure via a schedule to Form 990, similar to the new Schedule H for hospitals, that would require both the NCAA and universities with athletic programs to provide more information regarding their programs and the academic progress of student-athletes.

Suggested Citation:

Colombo, John David, The NCAA, Tax Exemption and College Athletics (February 19, 2009). Illinois Public Law Research Paper No. 08-08, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1336727 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1336727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
E G See , Fishman &amp; Schwarz
, volume 17 , p. 75 - 96
Crossref
John D Colombo And , Mark A Hall
THE CHARITABLE TAX EXEMPTION , volume 4 Posted: 1995
John David Colombo
The Role of Redistribution to the Poor in Federal Tax Exemption for Charities
Annual Conference of the National Center on Philanthropy and the Law, New York, NY, 2009 Pages: 28 Posted: 7 Nov 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Stetson L , Rev
Overview of the Tax Exempt Sector: Testimony Before the H
Comm. on Ways and Means , volume 395 , p. 397 - 98 Posted: 1997
Load more
4 Citations
Jonathan A. Jensen , Brian A. Turner , Chad D. McEvoy
Resource valuation of non-profit organizations: the case of the intercollegiate athletics industry
International Review on Public and Nonprofit Marketing , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 169 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Josephine R. Potuto
The NCAA State Actor Controversy: Much Ado About Nothing
67 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2012 · Downloads: 209
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Josephine R. Potuto
They Take Classes, Don't They?: Structuring a College Football Post Season
42 Pages · Posted: 17 Feb 2012 · Downloads: 57
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Maureen A Weston
Gamechanger: NCAA Student-Athlete Name & Likeness Licensing Litigation and the Future of College Sports
3 Mississippi Sports Law Review 79 , Pepperdine University Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2014/11 · 38 Pages · Posted: 6 Jun 2014 · Downloads: 402
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,099
ABSTRACT VIEWS
9,825
RANK
45,769
4 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Taxation, the Student Athlete, and the Professionalization of College Athletics

By Erik M. Jensen

The Age of Innocence: The First 25 Years of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, 1906 to 1931

By W. Burlette Carter

Commercialized Intercollegiate Athletics: A Proposal for Targeted Reform Consistent with American Cultural Forces and Marketplace Realities

By Matt Mitten, James L. Musselman, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies