Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Audit Committees Reduce the Agency Costs of Ownership Structure?

59 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2009 Last revised: 11 May 2011

Charlie X. Cai

University of Liverpool Management School

David Hillier

University of Strathclyde - Department of Accounting and Finance

Gao-Liang Tian

Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU) - School of Management

Qinghua Wu

Fu Dan University

Date Written: May 1, 2011

Abstract

We investigate the agency costs of corporate ownership structure and the role of audit committees in mitigating their effect. Using China as a laboratory, where audit committees are voluntary, we study the demand for and value relevance of audit committees conditional on the various agency costs of corporate ownership. Audit committees are shown to complement existing internal governance systems by reducing the agency conflicts embedded in ownership structure. They are always value relevant, the magnitude of which depends upon the level and complexity of the ownership lattice. Finally, audit committees substitute for inefficient external regulatory environments, particularly where weak legal institutions predominate. Our results are robust to firm size, investment level and financial leverage.

Keywords: Government Owned Enterprises, Corporate Governance, Auditing, Audit Committee, Pyramid Groups

JEL Classification: G15, G38, G30

Suggested Citation:

Cai, Charlie Xiaowu and Hillier, David and Tian, Gao-Liang and Wu, Qinghua, Do Audit Committees Reduce the Agency Costs of Ownership Structure? (May 1, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1339232 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1339232
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , K Raghunandan
An empirical investigation of audit fees, nonaudit fees, and audit committees
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 20 , p. 215 - 234 Posted: 2003
Crossref
L J Abbott , S Parker , G F Peters , D V Rama
Corporate governance, audit quality, and the sarbanes-oxley act: Evidence from internal audit outsourcing
Accounting Review , volume 82 , p. 803 - 835 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Ali , T Y Chen , S Radhakrishnan
Corporate disclosures by family firms
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 44 , p. 238 - 286 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W A Andrews , M J Dowling
Explaining performance changes in newly privatized firms
Journal of Management Studies , volume 35 , p. 601 - 617 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Mahama Wayo , Osman Chilala
Corporate Governance, Control and Corporate Performance
18 Pages · Posted: 6 Dec 2014 · Downloads: 184
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Géraldine Broye , Pauline Johannes
Determinants of Audit Committee Effectiveness: Reviewing a Decade of Empirical Research
Forthcoming Comptabilité Contrôle Audit – Accounting Auditing Control, · 52 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 388
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
882
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,665
RANK
62,281
2 Citations
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

American Finance Association Meetings (AFA)

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee, Board of Director Characteristics, and Earnings Management

By April Klein

Audit Committee Composition and Auditor Reporting

By Joseph V. Carcello and Terry L. Neal

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies