Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lessons from the Swedish Bank Crisis

11 Pages Posted: 14 Feb 2009 Last revised: 13 Mar 2009

Peter Went

CLS Bank International

Date Written: February 14, 2009

Abstract

This note discusses the Swedish banking crisis its causes and its resolution. In resolving the current financial crisis, policy makers offer the Swedish experience as an example to follow, particularly when the banking crisis is concurrent with an economic crisis and is systemic. Tools to resolve the crisis include the good bank/bad bank model, where non-performing loans are spun off in an asset management company for management and collection. Additional tools include ongoing government support to banks that have viable charters and are likely to return to profitability after the crisis. The resolution of the crisis demonstrated that in a systemic banking crisis, the central bank's role of the lender of last resort can be complemented with the government's role of the investor of the last resort.

Keywords: Systemic crisis, Sweden, subprime, real estate, bad bank, asset management

Suggested Citation:

Went, Peter, Lessons from the Swedish Bank Crisis (February 14, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1343200 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1343200
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
Martin Andersson , Staffan Viotti
Managing and Preventing Financial Crises -Lessons from the Swedish Experience
Sveriges Riskbank, retrieved from www.riksbank.se on Posted: 1999-02-14
Urban Backstrom
What lessons can be learned from recent financial crises? The Swedish experience, remarks at the Federal Reserve Symposium on Maintaining Financial Stability in a Global Economy Posted: 1997-08-29
Clas Bergstrom , Peter Englund , Per Thorell
Securum and the Way out of the Swedish Banking Crisis
SNS Report Posted: 2003-05
Congressional research service, The U.S. Financial Crisis: Lessons From Sweden, Order Code RS22962 Posted: 2008-09-29
Load more
2 Citations
Bastian Breitenfellner , Niklas Wagner
Lessons from the Financial Crisis
, p. 579 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Luc Bernier
The Future of Public Enterprises: Perspectives from the Canadian Experience
Annals of Public and Cooperative Economics, Vol. 82, Issue 4, pp. 399-419, 2011 · 21 Pages · Posted: 21 Nov 2011 · Downloads: 10
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,166
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,063
RANK
42,090
2 Citations
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Macroeconomics & Monetary Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Systemic Banking Crises: A New Database

By Luc Laeven and Fabián Valencia

The Use of Asset Management Companies in the Resolution of Banking Crises Cross-Country Experiences

By Daniela Klingebiel

Financial Restructuring in East Asia: Halfway There?

By Stijn Claessens, Simeon Djankov, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies