Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Independence and Objectivity: Evidence from the Chinese National Audit Office

19 Pages Posted: 23 Feb 2009

H Gin Chong

Prairie View A&M University - College of Business

Date Written: February 2, 2009

Abstract

Independence and objectivity are essential credibility elements for the audit reports. A lack of literature on the independence of the Chinese National Audit Office (CNAO) prompted this paper to fill the void. Based on the audit reports submitted to the Chinese Congress, the CNAO has exhibited its rigorousness in the audit approaches, and its independence and objectivity. Despite the varying length of the reports, these reports comply with the auditing standards on audit reports stipulated by the CNAO. The findings benefit both the government and private audits, within and outside China. Future research could include longitudinal studies on the reports, and the economic and financial implications of these reports to the Congress and auditees. Cross border comparisons, in particular among the emerging economies, will add benefits to the policy makers and audit profession.

Keywords: auditing guidelines, Chinese National Audit Office, independence and objectivity

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Chong, H Gin, Audit Independence and Objectivity: Evidence from the Chinese National Audit Office (February 2, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1347823 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1347823
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
G Chong
Chinese auditing system
Management Accounting , p. 66 - 68 Posted: 1998-07
G Chong
The auditing systems in the Peoples' Republic of China
Journal of Accounting and Auditing , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 281 - 285 Posted: 1999-06
G Chong
Auditing framework in the People's Republic of China and the international auditing guidelines: some comparisons
Managerial Finance Journal , volume 26 , issue 5 , p. 12 - 20 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G Chong , G Vinten
Harmonisation of government audits in the People's Republic of China
Managerial Auditing Journal Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
536
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,296
RANK
119,199
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Impact of Improved Auditor Independence on Audit Market Concentration in China

By Mark L. Defond, T.j. Wong, ...

Financial Packaging of IPO Firms in China

By Joseph Aharony, Jevons Lee, ...

Earnings Management and Capital Resource Allocation: Evidence from China's Accounting-Based Regulation of Rights Issue

By Kevin C. W. Chen and Hongqi Yuan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies