Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Publication Rates of Governmental and Nonprofit Manuscripts Among Twenty-Five Leading Academic Accounting Journals

16 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2009

Paul A. Copley

James Madison University - School of Accounting

Bradley M. Roof

James Madison University - School of Accounting

Eileen M. Shifflett

James Madison University - School of Accounting

Date Written: March 6, 2009

Abstract

We examine publication rates of governmental and nonprofit accounting and reporting manuscripts among 25 leading academic accounting journals for the ten year period ending in 2005. Overall, we find that governmental and nonprofit manuscripts constitute approximately three percent of the publications appearing in the leading journals. However, the frequency of publication varies considerably among these journals.

We also examine the distribution of governmental and nonprofit publications across subject matter. Our analysis confirms that financial accounting topics are the dominant subject matter in academic journals (both overall and among governmental and nonprofit manuscripts) but that nonprofit taxation and governmental and nonprofit auditing and managerial manuscripts are published. We found no publications of accounting education articles specific to the teaching of governmental or nonprofit accounting or reporting.

Keywords: governmental accounting, nonprofit accounting, not-for-profit accounting, publication rates

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Copley, Paul A. and Roof, Bradley M. and Shifflett, Eileen M., Publication Rates of Governmental and Nonprofit Manuscripts Among Twenty-Five Leading Academic Accounting Journals (March 6, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1354700 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1354700
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
S M Glover , D F Prawitt , D A Wood
Publication Records of Faculty Promoted at the Top 75 Accounting Research Programs
Issues in Accounting Education , p. 195 - 218 Posted: 2006-08
Crossref
S Lowensohn , D P Samelson
An examination of Faculty Perceptions of Academic Journal Quality within Five Specialized Areas of Accounting Research
Issues in Accounting Education , p. 219 - 239 Posted: 2006-08
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
531
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,154
RANK
120,594
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Publishing in the Majors: A Comparison of Accounting, Finance, Management, and Marketing

By Edward P. Swanson

Concentration in Publishing at Top-Tier Business Journals: Evidence and Potential Explanations

By Edward P. Swanson, Christopher J. Wolfe, ...

Publication Records of Faculty Promoted at the Top 75 Accounting Research Programs

By Steven M. Glover, Douglas F. Prawitt, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies