Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Investigation of the Relative Importance of the Characteristics of Information in Governmental Financial Reporting

Business Journal, Vol. 19, Nos. 1-2, pp. 56-62, 2003

Posted: 4 Apr 2009

Dennis T. Kennedy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Madjid Tavana

La Salle University; University of Paderborn - Faculty of Business Administration, Economics and Business Computing

Bruce A. Leauby

La Salle University

Yusuf Joseph Ugras

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

In both its Concepts Statements, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board describes the basic characteristics of information in governmental financial reports and recognizes that the relative importance of the qualities may differ between groups of decision makers. This study examined the relative importance attached to the qualities by a sample that included preparers, auditors and users of governmental financial reports. The survey questionnaire was based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process and captured the respondents' perceptions through a series of tradeoffs between pairs of the qualities. Profile analysis was used to examine the responses for group differences. The results revealed differences between and within the group profiles that should be considered in future policy deliberations on the reporting model.

Suggested Citation:

Kennedy, Dennis T. and Tavana, Madjid and Leauby, Bruce A. and Ugras, Yusuf Joseph, An Investigation of the Relative Importance of the Characteristics of Information in Governmental Financial Reporting (2003). Business Journal, Vol. 19, Nos. 1-2, pp. 56-62, 2003, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1372923
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,422
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies