Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Efficiency Cost of Child Tax Benefits

15 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2009

Kevin J. Mumford

Purdue University - Department of Economics

Date Written: November 2008

Abstract

Families with children receive preferential treatment in the U.S. federal income tax. Over the past 15 years, the real value of child tax benefits approximately doubled reaching nearly $1,900 per child in 2006. This paper examines the efficiency cost of providing child tax benefits. A representative agent model is used to show how the efficiency cost of providing child tax benefits depends on labor supply and fertility elasticities. The model reveals that cross-price substitution effect for labor supply and children is of primary importance in calculating the efficiency cost. However, there are no estimates of this parameter in the literature. This paper uses data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY) to estimate this parameter. The estimated cross-price substitution effect implies that children and time spent outside of employment are complements. This implies that the full cost of providing child tax benefits is larger than the reported tax expenditure.

Keywords: Child Tax Benefits, Income Tax, Fertility, Female Labor Supply

JEL Classification: H21, H24, J13

Suggested Citation:

Mumford, Kevin J., The Efficiency Cost of Child Tax Benefits (November 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1373901 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1373901
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Alan J Auerbach
The Theory of Excess Burden and Optimal Taxation , volume 1 , p. 61 - 127 Posted: 1985
Crossref
Wilfred J Corlett , Douglas C Hague
Complementarity and the Excess Burden of Taxation
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 21 , p. 21 - 30 Posted: 1954
Crossref
Arnold C Harberger
The Measurment of Waste
The American Economic Review , volume 54 , p. 58 - 76 Posted: 1964
John R Hicks , Value , Capital , Oxford
Posted: 1939
Load more
1 Citations
Bas J.A.M. van Groezen , A.C. (Lex) Meijdam
At Whose Service? Subsidizing Services and the Skill Premium
CentER Discussion Paper Series No. 2010-01 · 19 Pages · Posted: 11 Jan 2010 · Downloads: 56
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,398
RANK
713,739
1 Citations
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

At Whose Service? Subsidizing Services and the Skill Premium

By Bas Van Groezen and A. C. Meijdam

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies