Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funding Public Pension Plans

John Marshall Law Review, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 837-878, Summer 2009

42 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2009 Last revised: 28 Aug 2010

Jonathan Barry Forman

University of Oklahoma College of Law

Date Written: June 14, 2009

Abstract

Most state and local government employees are covered by traditional final-average-pay pension plans. State and local government employers typically fund those pension plans through a combination of employer and employee contributions, with help from investment returns on already-accumulated assets. Unlike private sector pension plans, however, public pension plans are not subject to strict minimum funding standards like those in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Public pensions also face more flexible accounting standards than private sector pensions. To be sure, many public pensions are nevertheless fairly well funded. Unfortunately, however, the recent meltdown of financial markets, the decline in the stock market, and the recession are putting tremendous pressure on both public pensions and the state and local governments that fund them; and public employers will need to respond.

At the outset, this article reviews the operation and funding status of state and local government pension plans. Next, this article discusses the major financial, accounting, and legal issues that relate to the funding of state and local government pension plans. Finally, this article considers how to ensure that public employees will have adequate retirement benefits now and in the future.

Keywords: retirement, pension funding, actuarial liability, mark-to-market, government finance

JEL Classification: G23, H55, H72, J11, J26, J45

Suggested Citation:

Forman, Jonathan Barry, Funding Public Pension Plans (June 14, 2009). John Marshall Law Review, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 837-878, Summer 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1388251
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Pension Actuary&apos;s Guide , To , Economics
Crossref
Todisco, supra note 102, at 3 (noting an increased resistance to the market-to-market approach)
Wozniak &amp; Austin
) (discussing the effective dates for measurement and the specific facets of what pension actuaries advise their clients to do). The Internal Revenue Service permits defined benefit plans to smooth the market values of assets over 24 months
Rev. Proc , volume 158 Posted: 2009-10-24
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
686
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,471
RANK
86,861
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies