Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Moving Toward the New Public Management Paradigm

23 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2009

David William Young

Boston University - Questrom School of Business

Emanuele Padovani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: January 20, 2009

Abstract

Most local governments (LGs) have failed to attain the New Public Management Paradigm. Among the reasons for the failure are cross-subsidization policies that violate the benefit-equity and/or generational-equity principles. An LG seeking to achieve these principles must increase the number of programs funded with user fees. It is possible - if an LG has the desire and political will - to establish user fees for many programs that currently are financed with general fund revenues. The shift - which requires rethinking managerial structures, cost-accounting methodologies, outsourcing decisions, and service integration activities - can be implemented by making some relatively minor modifications to the LG's management control system.

Keywords: New Public Management, Enterprise Funds, Management Control, Outsourcing, Performance Measurement

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H71, H72, M41

Suggested Citation:

Young, David William and Padovani, Emanuele, Moving Toward the New Public Management Paradigm (January 20, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1389512 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1389512
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
R N Anthony , Young D W
Management Control in Nonprofit Organizations Posted: 2003
Crossref
A J Auerbach , L J Kotlikoff , Leibfritz
Changes in the Usage of Enterprises Funds by Large City Governments
Public Budgeting & Finance , p. 15 - 29 Posted: 1999
City Of San , Diego
Fiscal Year 2007 Proposed Budget, Prepared by Budget and Management Services Posted: 2007
Crossref
H De Bruijn , London , J Guthrie , C Humphrey , L R Jones , O Olson
Managing Performance in the Public Sector Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
559
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,009
RANK
113,060
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Managing High-Risk Outsourcing

By Emanuele Padovani and David William Young

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies