Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ultimate Ownership and Performance of Islamic Financial Institutions in Malaysia

Asian Finance Association Conference, July 2009

25 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2009

Shamsuwatd Zuha Mohd Abbas

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Rashidah Abdul Rahman

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Bureau of Research and Consultancy (BRC)

Sakthi Mahenthrian

Butler University

Date Written: April 21, 2009

Abstract

This paper examines the ultimate ownership structure on accounting performance of 31 Islamic financial institutions (IFIs) in Malaysia. The IFIs include the commercial banks, merchant banks, discount houses and development financial institutions (Bank Simpanan Nasional and Bank Pertanian Malaysia or currently Agro Bank) listed by Bank Negara for the year 2000 to 2006. The ownership structure is measured by the identity of the top 10 ultimate owners of the financial institutions. Performance is measured by the return on equity (ROE) and Non-Performing Loans (NPLs). Results of the study show that the ultimate owner of the majority of IFIs in Malaysia is the government. This is followed by foreign, family and institutional ownership. The statistical mean for the government ownership for the top 10 of the IFIs is about 36%. We find evidence that government, family and institutional ownership have significantly positive influence on ROE whereas none of the ownership investigated in this paper influence NPLs.

Keywords: Islamic Financial Institutions, Ownership of Malaysian Banks, Bank Performance

JEL Classification: G21, G32

Suggested Citation:

Mohd Abbas, Shamsuwatd Zuha and Rahman, Rashidah Abdul and Mahenthrian, Sakthi, Ultimate Ownership and Performance of Islamic Financial Institutions in Malaysia (April 21, 2009). Asian Finance Association Conference, July 2009 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1392833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
Toni Aburime
Impact of Ownership Structure on Bank Profitability in Nigeria
Pages: 24 Posted: 21 Mar 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm Performance and Mechanisms to Control Agency Problems between Managers and Shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Rubi Ahmad , Huson Joher Aliahmed , Nazrul Hisyam Ab Razak
Government Ownership and Performance: An Analysis of Listed Companies in Malaysia
Posted: 27 Aug 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Anderson , D Reeb
Founding-family ownership and firm performance: Evidence from the S&P 500
Journal of Finance , volume 58 , p. 1301 - 1327 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
723
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,910
RANK
81,167
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Law and Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

Legal Determinants of External Finance

By Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-silanes, ...

A Survey of Corporate Governance

By Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies