Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balancing Multiple Competing Objectives with a Balanced Scorecard

European Accounting Review, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Apr 2009

Heidi Sundin

University of Technology Sydney (UTS)

Markus Granlund

Turku School of Economics

David Andrew Brown

University of Technology Sydney (UTS) - UTS School of Accounting; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: April 23, 2009

Abstract

This paper investigates how multiple and competing objectives are managed within an organization, and the role that the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) plays in balancing organizational objectives. The issue of achieving multiple objectives, those which represent the interest of various stakeholders, has come to the forefront of the corporate agenda, as companies are seen increasingly as more than a source of profit for shareholders, but rather as 'citizens' playing a broader role in society. This study adopts an exploratory case study approach to understand how the BSC is used in management decision and control processes to assist with the balancing of objectives. The case organization is a state owned electricity company, and provides a unique setting where multiple and equally important strategic objectives exist. The results demonstrate that the BSC has the potential to help in making trade-offs and balancing objectives, but there are certain requirements for this to succeed. The paper provides insights into issues of balanced strategic management, as it discusses 'balance' in terms of both process and outcomes.

Keywords: Objectives, decision making, trade-offs, Balanced Scorecard, Management Control Systems, case study

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M47, L32

Suggested Citation:

Sundin, Heidi and Granlund, Markus and Brown, David Andrew, Balancing Multiple Competing Objectives with a Balanced Scorecard (April 23, 2009). European Accounting Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1393641
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,861
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies