Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of the Information Content of Published Government Financial Statements

Accounting Frontier: Journal of Nigerian Accounting Association, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2001

Posted: 9 May 2009

Prof. Suleiman A. S. Aruwa

Nasarawa State University

Date Written: December 8, 2001

Abstract

This paper investigates three basic qualitative epithets of Government Financial Statements. These are the adequacy of the financial reporting statements in meeting the information need of diverse user groups in the country, reports utilization, and compliance of the statements with the statutory requirements. To accomplish the objectives of this paper, three hypotheses were formulated and tested. On the basis of these hypotheses, personal interview and government financial statement evaluation questionnaire were used as research instruments. The descriptive and parametric statistics were employed in analysing the data and testing the hypotheses, respectively. The paper revealed that the Government Financial Statements, in the present form, significantly comply with statutory laws but inadequate for report utilisation. There is high desire by the user groups for a more comprehensive and informative Government Financial Statements. Consequently, to improve the quality of the financial statements, it is recommended that the financial reports should be simplified with special financial reports based on users’ request. The need for emphasis on external reporting over stewardship reporting is strongly advocated. These will add value to the usefulness of Government Financial Statements.

Keywords: published Accounts, Information, Financial, Statement, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Aruwa, Suleiman A. S., The Quality of the Information Content of Published Government Financial Statements (December 8, 2001). Accounting Frontier: Journal of Nigerian Accounting Association, Vol. 3, No. 1, 2001 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1401547
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies