Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Should Business and Non-Business Accounting Be Different? A Comparative Perspective Applied to the New French Governmental Accounting Standards

International Journal of Public Administration (IJPA), Volume 35, Issue 9, July 2012, pages 603-619

12th Biennial CIGAR Conference Paper, University of Modena, Italy, May 28-29, 2009

EGPA Annual Conference, Rotterdam, September 2008

40 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2009 Last revised: 3 Aug 2012

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: October 4, 2011

Abstract

A conceptual framework of accounting for the economics of non-business entities is developed and applied to the new French "accounting constitution" of governmental accounting. The concept of non-business entity is used to investigate the nature and role of non lucrative organizations within the economic system and their specific economic and monetary process. This theoretical perspective compares business and non-business accounting representations. Accordingly, concerning business entities, three different accounting models of accruals are addressed: the wealth-basis (static), the cash-basis, and the flow-basis (dynamic). Whilst the wealth-basis refers to current (fair) values and results to be at odds with the specificities of the non-business economics, a dynamic accounting model of the accruals basis is retained and adapted to these specificities. This dynamic accounting model is then applied to a conceptual assessment of the new French accounting standards set. With the enactment of the General Law of Finances of 2001 (LOLF, 2001), the French Government introduced a new set of accounting standards shaped by an explicit conceptual framework. This legislation retains for governmental accounting the logic of financial reporting that had been in effect for business enterprises, but also addresses the "specificities" of accounting for public sector entities. According to our analysis, the concepts of "produit" (revenue) and "actif" (asset), and some specific standards create an ambiguity between the static and the dynamic model. Our conceptual framework may be applied further to the analysis of other accounting standards sets such as the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).

Keywords: public accountability, accruals and cash accounting, non-business accounting and economics, governmental accounting theory and standards, France, nature and role of the non business entity

JEL Classification: D73, E62, H61, M40

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Should Business and Non-Business Accounting Be Different? A Comparative Perspective Applied to the New French Governmental Accounting Standards (October 4, 2011). International Journal of Public Administration (IJPA), Volume 35, Issue 9, July 2012, pages 603-619, 12th Biennial CIGAR Conference Paper, University of Modena, Italy, May 28-29, 2009, EGPA Annual Conference, Rotterdam, September 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1414751 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1414751
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
81 References
A A Vv
Numéro spécial consacré à la LOLF et à ses enjeux
Revue Française de Finances Publiques , volume 82 Posted: 2003-06
I Aiken
Parliamentary Sovereignty and Valuation Accruals: Uncongenial Conventions , volume 10 , p. 17 - 32 Posted: 1994
Crossref
N R Anthony
Financial Accounting in Non-business Organizations. An Exploratory Study of Conceptual Issues
Research Report, Financial Accounting Standards Board Posted: 1978
N R Anthony
Should Business and Non-Business Accounting Be Different? Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,343
RANK
33,268
5 Citations
81 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies