Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Hein v. Freedom from Religion Foundation and Taxpayer Standing

Wayne Law Review, Vol. 54, No. 3, 2008

46 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2009

Preston C. Green

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joseph Oluwole

Independent

Date Written: April 6, 2009

Abstract

On June 25, 2007, the United States Supreme Court made an important decision on taxpayer standing in Hein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation, Inc. In this case, federal taxpayers challenged use of federal funds to support faith-based initiatives. The Court had to determine the scope of the narrow exception to taxpayer standing created in Flast v. Cohen, discussed herein, which allows taxpayer suits to challenge government action as violative of the Establishment Clause. While the Court held that the challenge did not fall within the ambit of the narrow Flast exception to the prohibition of taxpayer suits, the decision is not as simple as the holding suggests. In fact, as has obtained for nearly a century of exposition of the standing doctrine by scholars and judges, there was disagreement among the Supreme Court Justices in Hein on the essence of taxpayer standing. We will examine the nuances of Hein in this article as well as the implications of the decision for taxpayer suits against school districts.

Keywords: taxpayer standing, constitutional law, constitution, Flast, Cohen, Establishment Clause, standing, rights, religion, tax, policy, religious, faith-based, faith, school, education, district, school district, Supreme Court, federal court, state court, court, litigant, Flast v. Cohen, prudential

Suggested Citation:

Green, Preston C. and Oluwole, Joseph, Hein v. Freedom from Religion Foundation and Taxpayer Standing (April 6, 2009). Wayne Law Review, Vol. 54, No. 3, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1415503
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Id
at 2566 (quotations omitted) (quoting Valley Forge , volume 479
Id
392 U Flast
Crossref
Id
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,229
RANK
605,632
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

U.S. Constitutional Law: Interpretation & Judicial Review eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies