Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using the Balanced Scorecard to Improve the Performance of City and County Councils

21 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2009 Last revised: 10 Sep 2009

Vishwanath Ramanna

Date Written: August 8, 2009

Abstract

The managers and constituents of City and county councils are increasingly concerned about measuring and managing the council performance. While the use of balanced scorecard for performance management is widespread, its use is less well known in the context of city councils. This article describes the adaptation of the Balanced Scorecard to City councils. Several examples of actual implementation in the US and UK are provided.

Keywords: Performance measurement, Balanced Scorecard, Strategy, strategy maps, City councils

JEL Classification: M40, M46, M48

Suggested Citation:

Ramanna, Vishwanath, Using the Balanced Scorecard to Improve the Performance of City and County Councils (August 8, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1417743 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1417743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
L Aidemark
The meaning of Balanced Scorecards in the health care organization
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 17 , issue 1 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A Atkinson , J ; Cma Mccrindell , Magazine
Strategic Measurement in Government Posted: 1997-04
Y C L Chan
Performance Measurement and Adoption of Balanced scorecards: A survey of municipal governments in the USA and Canada
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 17 , issue 3 Posted: 2004
Richard Greatbanks , David Tapp
The impact of balanced scorecards in a public sector environment: Empirical evidence from Dunedin City Council
International Journal of Operations and Production Management , volume 27 , issue 8 , p. 846 - 873 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
633
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,127
RANK
96,333
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measures Vs. Actions: The Balanced Scorecard in Swedish Law Enforcement

By Salvador Carmona and Anders Grönlund

Financial Incentives for Doctors

By Marc A. Rodwin

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies