Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Contextual Forces Which Shape Performance Definition: Swinging Towards and Away from Sustainability

35 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2009

Eric A. Scorsone

Michigan State University - Department of Agricultural Economics

Emanuele Padovani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: June 15, 2009

Abstract

While it is indisputable that performance measurement has become a centerpiece of governance in the late 20th and early 21st century, it is unclear in many cases if “performance” implies the same concept across cultures and countries. A variety of definitions of performance are in use among political and management actors, media and public opinion. The goal of this study is to use the occasion of two major public crises or disasters, the USA bridge collapse occurred in 2007 and the Italian garbage crisis appeared in the region of Naples at the end of 2007, as natural experiments to examine how, by whom and towards which directions performance expectations are established, altered and enforced over time. From the analysis of the two cases, we built up the concept of “performance equilibrium” which is useful, we argue, for researchers and practitioners in understanding the contextual forces which shape the definition of performance over time approaching or moving away from the concept of sustainability.

Keywords: performance, public sector, sustainability, crises

JEL Classification: H11, H54, H83, Q10, Q53

Suggested Citation:

Scorsone, Eric A. and Padovani, Emanuele, The Contextual Forces Which Shape Performance Definition: Swinging Towards and Away from Sustainability (June 15, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1420142 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1420142
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
Rapporto Rifiuti Posted: 2001
___
Rapporto Rifiuti Posted: 2005
___
Rapporto Rifiuti Posted: 2006
___
Rapporto Rifiuti Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,036
RANK
490,153
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Measuring Globalization

By Torben M. Andersen and Tryggvi Thor Herbertsson

International Integration, Risk and the Welfare State

By Torben M. Andersen

Measurement and Analysis of Child Well-Being in Middle and High Income Countries

By Almas Heshmati, Chemen S. J. Bajalan, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies