Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences and Costs of Compliance of Financial Reporting for Local Government

1 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2009

Robyn A Pilcher

Curtin University

Graeme Dean

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Accounting

Date Written: June 25, 2009

Abstract

Local governments are continuously being subjected to changing legislation in regard to reporting requirements. Results of this research indicate that the amount of time allocated to complying with external reporting requirements was often considered excessive and not always relevant - detracting from the 'doing'. It was also revealed that the bottom line is perceived to be the most important indicator of a council’s performance by stakeholders. From this, several implications emerge - including the potential for manipulation of accounting figures to achieve a target operating result. Another includes councils losing their original identity as service providers to the community. Hence, financial, political and social costs appear to be associated with continually changing financial reporting requirements imposed on local government. Future research proposes to take the derived questionnaire used here to other countries in order to determine whether data prepared using financial accounting standards (like the International Financial Reporting Standards) distort the information used by the various council decision-makers.

Keywords: Local government, financial reporting

JEL Classification: H72, M49

Suggested Citation:

Pilcher, Robyn A and Dean, Graeme, Consequences and Costs of Compliance of Financial Reporting for Local Government (June 25, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1425369 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1425369
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
275
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,081
RANK
253,661
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies