Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Comments on Canadian Accounting Standards Board Exposure Draft on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for Private Enterprises

Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2010

University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-693

Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 38-09

14 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2009 Last revised: 11 Jun 2013

Robert J. Bloomfield

Cornell University - Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management

Theodore E. Christensen

University of Georgia - J.M. Tull School of Accounting; University of Georgia

Robert H. Colson

Grant Thornton LLP

Karim Jamal

University of Alberta - Department of Accounting, Operations & Information Systems

Stephen R. Moehrle

University of Missouri at Saint Louis - Accounting Area

James A. Ohlson

Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Stephen H. Penman

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation; Bocconi University

Gary Previts

Case Western Reserve University - Department of Accountancy

Thomas L. Stober

University of Notre Dame - Department of Accountancy

Shyam Sunder

Yale University - School of Management; Yale University - Cowles Foundation

Ross L. Watts

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

The Canadian Accounting Standards Board (AcSB) issued an exposure draft on a proposal to adopt a separate 'Made in Canada' GAAP for private enterprises. This new GAAP is justified as being consistent with the current FASB/IASB conceptual framework, but as being responsive to the different cost/benefit considerations facing private entities vis-à-vis public entities. We viewed this proposal as being innovative and responsive to the differential financial reporting needs of private entities. We proposed that the AcSB should develop a separate conceptual framework to guide the future evolution of this new GAAP and not rely only on cost-benefit considerations. We sketched a preliminary conceptual framework that could be used to develop and justify the type of changes proposed in this exposure draft. We then responded to the specific questions asked in the exposure draft and were very supportive of the concepts proposed. First, we support the proposed GAAP which is based on historical cost with very minimal reliance on fair values. Second, we expressed agreement with the proposal to reduce the amount of required disclosures for private enterprises given their significant economic differences from public companies. Third, we agreed with the proposal to drop provision of significant guidance and especially (ex-post) emerging issues committee interpretations (EIC’s). We are in favour of a principles based GAAP and the provision of detailed authoritative guidance is not conducive to professional judgment. We also suggested a series of transition issues that the AcSB should consider including the mechanism for financing the standard setting board, the need to ensure compatibility between accounting and auditing standards, and a process for adjusting the education system (both in Universities and professional exams) to support this new private enterprise GAAP. This comment was developed by the Financial Accounting Standards Committee of the American Accounting Association and does not represent an official position of the American Accounting Association.

Keywords: accounting standards, private GAAP

JEL Classification: M41, M44, M45, M47

Suggested Citation:

Bloomfield, Robert J. and Christensen, Theodore E. and Colson, Robert H. and Jamal, Karim and Moehrle, Stephen R. and Ohlson, James A. and Penman, Stephen H. and Previts, Gary J. and Stober, Thomas L. and Sunder, Shyam and Watts, Ross L., Comments on Canadian Accounting Standards Board Exposure Draft on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for Private Enterprises (July 1, 2009). Accounting Horizons, Vol. 24, No. 1, 2010, University of Alberta School of Business Research Paper No. 2013-693, Johnson School Research Paper Series No. 38-09, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1429526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1429526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
Comments on Proposed Rule on Accepting Foreign Private Issuers Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with IFRS Without reconciliation to Posted: 2007
A Framework for Financial Reporting Standards: Issues and a Suggested Model
American Accounting Association Financial Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 2009
Crossref
Shyam Sunder
Comments on SEC Proposed Rule on 'Roadmap for Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. Issuers'
Pages: 64 Posted: 22 Jun 2009
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
R Ball , S Kothari , A Robin
The effect of international institutional factors on properties of accounting earnings
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
456
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,237
RANK
144,925
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Columbia Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies