Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Measurement in Universities: A Comparative Study of Two A&F Groups in the Netherlands and the UK

43 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2009

Henk J. ter Bogt

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business - Dept. of Accounting

Robert William Scapens

Alliance Manchester Business School

Date Written: June 24, 2009

Abstract

Traditionally, the management of universities has been relatively informal and, to a large extent, the responsibility of academics. However, with the rise of New Public Management in the 1980s, and its introduction of rational, ‘businesslike’ management into the public sectors of most Western countries, many universities have made various changes in their management and control systems. For example, in many countries university funding is now much more dependent on ‘performance measures,' with such things as journal rankings, research assessments, teaching quality audits and so on. In this paper we describe a study we conducted in our own two universities; i.e., the Accounting and Finance groups in Groningen and Manchester. The objective of this research is to explore the reasons for the similarities, and more importantly, the differences in the use of performance measurement systems in the two universities. Our research is informed by recent developments in institutional theory which have begun to explore the internal processes through which organizations respond to external institutional pressures. The aim is to examine how the institutional pressure for more performance measurement in universities in general is reproduced in terms of performance measurement systems within the specific universities and how these systems impact on individual departments and the academics working within them.

Although there are differences, the perceived effects of the new performance measurement systems appear quite similar in both cases. For example, individual academics understand and probably to some extent positively welcome the new more ‘rational and objective’ systems, but these systems also create uncertainty, stress and, in some instances, even anger and frustration. In the past, resource allocation and performance measurement were relatively implicit and subjective, but they were largely developed and ‘owned’ by the academics themselves, and were a part of their ‘group culture’, whilst nowadays the systems are imposed from higher levels of the faculty and/or university. It seems that adding elements of rationality and objectivity to the systems does not necessarily reduce uncertainty and stress; more likely it can even add to them.

Keywords: performance measurement, universities, new public management, journal rankings, institutional theory, institutional logics

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

ter Bogt, Henk J. and Scapens, Robert William, Performance Measurement in Universities: A Comparative Study of Two A&F Groups in the Netherlands and the UK (June 24, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1432749 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1432749
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
Management Control Systems in Research and Development Organizations: The Role of Accounting, Behavior and Personnel Controls, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 22 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 233 - 248 Posted: 1997
Crossref
L Adriaenssens , P De Prins , D Vloeberghs
Werkbeleving en Werkstress bij Academici. Behoefte aan Meer of Beter HRM?
Tijdschrift voor HRM , volume 10 , p. 87 - 111 Posted: 2006
G Anderson
The Handbook of Human Resource Management , p. 186 - 207 Posted: 1994
D Angluin , R W Scapens
Transparency, Accounting Knowledge and Perceived Fairness in UK Universities' Resource Allocation: Results from a Survey of Accounting and Finance
British Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
956
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,524
RANK
55,687
8 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Input Controls in the Public Sector: What Does Economic Theory Offer?

By David L. Heymann

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies