Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Does the Incentive Effect of the Charitable Deduction Vary Across Charities?

Accounting Review, May 2013, Volume 88, No. 3, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Jul 2009 Last revised: 22 Mar 2013

Robert J. Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Michelle Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Abstract

We examine how taxes affect donations given to nonprofit organizations and how this varies across nonprofit types. Most prior studies constrained tax price elasticities to be constant across nonprofits, primarily because the data do not provide donations by nonprofit type. Using nonprofit-level data and average marginal tax rates that vary across years and states, we estimate tax price elasticities by nonprofit type. We find an aggregate public charity elasticity of approximately -1.0 and a private foundation elasticity of approximately -2.0. These results suggest that the cost of the charitable contribution deduction is roughly proportional to its benefit for public charities, but that the deduction stimulates significant giving for private foundations. When we partition our elasticities across 24 public charity types, we find significant elasticities of -1.0 or larger for six types. This result suggests that the effect of the charitable contribution deduction varies significantly across nonprofit types.

Keywords: tax incentives, charitable deduction, nonprofit organizations, charities

JEL Classification: H2, H4, H7, L3, K34

Suggested Citation:

Yetman, Robert and Yetman, Michelle, How Does the Incentive Effect of the Charitable Deduction Vary Across Charities?. Accounting Review, May 2013, Volume 88, No. 3, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1435150 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1435150
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,294
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies