Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State and Local Finance: Increasing Focus on Fiscal Sustainability

Publius: The Journal of Federalism, Vol. 39, No. 3, pp. 455-475, 2009

Posted: 18 Aug 2009

Robert B. Ward

State University of New York (SUNY) - Rockefeller College of Public Affairs & Policy

Lucy Dadayan

Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government

Abstract

Researchers in state and local finance have placed increasing focus in recent years on “fiscal sustainability,” the ability of governments to meet existing spending commitments with existing resources. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), which establishes accounting and financial reporting standards for states and local governments, is considering setting standards in this area. This article analyzes recent history of states’ expenditures and revenues as context for potential trends. It examines descriptions of fiscal sustainability that have been offered in previous literature and suggests a need for clear definition. The article discusses potential implications of action by GASB in this area, as well as developments in the economy and potential action at the federal level that may influence state and local budgets in the years ahead.

Suggested Citation:

Ward, Robert B. and Dadayan, Lucy, State and Local Finance: Increasing Focus on Fiscal Sustainability. Publius: The Journal of Federalism, Vol. 39, No. 3, pp. 455-475, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1456189 or http://dx.doi.org/pjp014
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
727
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies