Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Economic Value of Auditing and its Effectiveness in Public School Operations

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2009

Yoshie Saito

City University of New York (CUNY) - Koppelman School of Business

Christopher S. McIntosh

University of Idaho

Date Written: August 28, 2009

Abstract

We examine the impact of auditing on public school operations with two objectives: to investigate whether audits provide economic benefits to stakeholders, and how complex compliance rules impact auditing effectiveness. Utilizing auditing time data and a unique opportunity presented by the Quality Basic Education Act in Georgia, we estimate the relative performance of school district operations employing a stochastic frontier estimation technique. We find that auditing produces real economic benefits for stakeholders by mitigating inefficiency in the use of school resources. We also find that stringent compliance rules reduce an audit’s effectiveness but auditors’ experience can help to overcome the problems. The lack of disclosure of auditing costs hinders the ability to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of new requirements. Our analysis supports the notion that auditing is vital to establish governance mechanisms and disclosure of auditing costs is important to adequately evaluate a new policy.

Keywords: Auditing effectiveness, public school auditing, agency theory, economic value of auditing

JEL Classification: M40, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Saito, Yoshie and McIntosh, Christopher S., The Economic Value of Auditing and its Effectiveness in Public School Operations (August 28, 2009). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1463709
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
W R Baber
Toward understanding the role of auditing in the public sector
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 227 Posted: 1983
Crossref
The influence of political competition on governmental reporting and auditing
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 8 , p. 109 - 127 Posted: 1994
W R Baber , P K Sen
The role of generally accepted reporting methods in the public sector
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 3 , p. 91 - 106 Posted: 1984
Crossref
D R Banker
Econometric estimation and data envelopment analysis
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 3 , p. 231 - 243 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
435
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,967
RANK
153,172
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Efficiency of Financial Institutions: International Survey and Directions for Future Research

By Allen N. Berger and David B. Humphrey

Inside the Black Box: What Explains Differences in the Efficiencies of Financial Institutions?

By Allen N. Berger and Loretta J. Mester

Entry Restrictions, Industry Evolution, And Dynamic Efficiency: Evidence from Commercial Banking

By Jith Jayaratne and Philip E. Strahan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies