Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Utility Regulation Substitute for Debt Covenants?

30 Pages Posted: 4 Sep 2009

Ervin L. Black

Steed School of Accounting

Thomas A. Carnes

Berry College - Campbell School of Business

Joshua Mallett

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Michael Mosebach

University of Akron - The George W. Daverio School of Accountancy

Date Written: September 1, 2009

Abstract

Governmental regulation and debt covenants both restrict a firm’s choices. We hypothesize that state-level regulation of utility companies will substitute for debt covenants and test this by examining the use of such covenants in publicly-held debt between 1985 and 2003. In general, our findings support this hypothesis. We find that debt covenants (except effective maturity covenants) occur in fewer utility company debt issues than for a matched sample of non-utilities. However, we find that the variability in the level of state regulation only affects the use of financing debt covenants by utilities, suggesting that the credit market considers state regulation to be homogenous for most other debt covenants despite differing state ratings. We also find some differences in debt covenant usage by type of utility: gas or electric.

Keywords: debt covenants, utilities

JEL Classification: L95

Suggested Citation:

Black, Ervin L. and Carnes, Thomas A. and Mallett, Joshua and Mosebach, Michael, Does Utility Regulation Substitute for Debt Covenants? (September 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1466259 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1466259
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M T Billett , T.-H D King , D C Mauer
Growth Opportunities and the Choice of Leverage, Debt Maturity, and Covenants
Journal of Finance LXII , p. 697 - 730 Posted: 2007
Crossref
W G Blacconiere , M F Johnson , M S Johnson
Market valuation and deregulation of electric utilities
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 29 , p. 231 - 260 Posted: 2000
Crossref
E L Black , T A Carnes , M Mosebach , S E Moyer
Regulatory monitoring as a substitute for debt covenants
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 37 , p. 367 - 391 Posted: 2004
Crossref
S Bryan , L.-S Hwang , S Lilien
CEO Compensation after Deregulation: The Case of Electric Utilities
Journal of Business , volume 78 , p. 1709 - 1752 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
116
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,179
RANK
552,835
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies