Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerial Compensation and Private Foundation Performance

Posted: 5 Sep 2009

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

Brian P. McAllister

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs

Date Written: September 3, 2009

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between private foundation performance and managerial pay. Private foundations are an unusual organizational form in that after the death of the founder, there are no donors or other external constituencies with the power and incentives to discipline management. Therefore, we expect that the pay-performance relationship may be negative. Because the purpose of a private foundation is to generate investment returns to be distributed to charities, we examine investment performance as well as administrative efficiency. Using a large sample of U.S. foundations over the period 1997-2005, we document that the relationship between pay and performance is negative in both levels and changes models and for both administrative and investment performance. Our findings contrast with studies investigating public charities and for-profit organizations which have generally found a positive pay-performance relationship. Our evidence suggests that foundations are often poorly monitored and foundation managers are often rewarded for poor performance. We discuss potential implications for policy makers concerned about foundation governance.

Keywords: foundations, nonprofit, compensation

JEL Classification: G38, J33, L31

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Arthur C. and McAllister, Brian P., Managerial Compensation and Private Foundation Performance (September 3, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1467902
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,475
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies