Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Restatements, Governance and Municipal Debt Financing

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), 56(2-3) 212-227, 2013.

45 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2009 Last revised: 31 Jan 2014

William R. Baber

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Angela K. Gore

George Washington University

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Jean X. Zhang

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU)

Date Written: August 12, 2013

Abstract

We find that mean municipal debt costs are greater following financial restatement disclosures. Comparisons of the relative use of municipal debt, and of the use of unsecured versus secured debt, corroborate that financial restatements increase the cost of municipal debt financing. Additional analyses indicate that adverse consequences of restatements are mitigated by strong audit oversight and by provisions that encourage direct voter participation in the governance process. The evidence supports the use of restatements as a summary measure of financial reporting quality in the municipal context and informs thinking about auditor and voter oversight in the municipal financial reporting process.

Keywords: municipal bonds, governance, restatements, financial reporting quality, debt costs, local government

JEL Classification: G34, M43, M41

Suggested Citation:

Baber, William R. and Gore, Angela K. and Rich, Kevin T. and Zhang, Jean X., Accounting Restatements, Governance and Municipal Debt Financing (August 12, 2013). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), 56(2-3) 212-227, 2013., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1471056 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1471056
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
706
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,456
RANK
83,693
12 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgetown University McDonough School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Governance and Equity Prices

By Paul A. Gompers, Joy L. Ishii, ...

What Matters in Corporate Governance?

By Lucian A. Bebchuk, Alma Cohen, ...

Governance Mechanisms and Equity Prices

By Martijn Cremers and Vinay B. Nair

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies