Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Ownership and Earnings Informativeness

32 Pages Posted: 10 Sep 2009

Li Liu

Deakin University; Deakin University - Deakin Business School

Date Written: September 9, 2009

Abstract

This study examines the relation between earnings informativeness, measured by the earnings-return relation, and government ownership by using Chinese data. Given the prevalence of pyramidal ownership structures, we identify the ultimate controlling shareholders and then hand-collect data on government shareholdings. This study finds that the level of government ownership is negatively associated with earnings informativeness. The result is driven by firms which have been listed for more than three years. However, the higher percentage of shareholdings held by the second largest shareholders could mitigate the negative impact of government ownership on earnings informativeness. Our results provide support to the argument that government shareholders become entrenched to pursue their private benefits when being involved in business enterprises.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Liu, Li, Government Ownership and Earnings Informativeness (September 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1471089 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1471089
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
Ni*lsize
Ni*lev
Ni*mb
NI*Loss -3.373***
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,670
RANK
432,122
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies