Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
General Aspects of Governement Internal Auditing of Enterprises Municipal at the Public Sector

13 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2009

Manuel Vélez C.

Paulo Vélez León

Universidad Autónoma de Madrid

Date Written: September 22, 2006

Abstract

The general aspects of governmental internal auditing of enterprises municipal at the Public Sector have to do with the endowment of a conceptual framework of internal audit from the perspective at the Municipal Public Sector Enterprises of the Republic of Ecuador through the systematization of its aspects existing basic, the synthetic approach to the business approach of Government Internal Audit as a strategy for subsequent control of business activities based on the basic criteria of internal audit to achieve the objectives of municipal control of a public sector enterprise, the definition of the basic organization of internal audit as a means to support multidisciplinary strategy and the determination of the main resources required for the management and operation of internal audit by definition, classification and development of criteria for selection of required resources for the organization and operation.

Keywords: Government Internal Audit, Enterprises municipal, Business Focus, Conceptual Framework, Organization, Resources

Suggested Citation:

Vélez C., Manuel and Vélez León, Paulo, General Aspects of Governement Internal Auditing of Enterprises Municipal at the Public Sector (September 22, 2006). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1477158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1477158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,155
RANK
134,537
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies