Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulating Charities in the 21st Century: An Institutional Choice Analysis

Chicago-Kent Law Review, Vol. 85, No. 2, p. 479, 2010

Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 09-41

73 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2009 Last revised: 16 Feb 2011

Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer

Notre Dame Law School

Brendan M. Wilson

Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, L.L.P.

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

For more than fifty years scholars, practitioners, and government officials have debated whether the federal government, the state governments, or the charitable sector itself can best ensure that charity leaders fulfill their fiduciary duties. The dramatic growth of this sector, recent highly publicized governance scandals, and a push in Congress and the IRS for more federal involvement in this area have now brought this issue to a head. This article lays a foundation for resolving the dispute by developing an institutional choice framework for considering and comparing the various available options. Applying that framework, the article concludes that the best regulators of charity governance would most likely be state-level government agencies that work with but have a limited degree of independence from the state attorneys general. The article also determines that the best way to ensure adoption of this institutional choice - and limit potential weaknesses - is for the federal government to provide dedicated funding for such agencies, which could be obtained through the already existing private foundation investment income tax.

Keywords: nonprofit corporation, governance, fiduciary duties, institutional choice, institutional design, tax-exempt organization, IRS

Suggested Citation:

Mayer, Lloyd Hitoshi and Wilson, Brendan M., Regulating Charities in the 21st Century: An Institutional Choice Analysis (2009). Chicago-Kent Law Review, Vol. 85, No. 2, p. 479, 2010, Notre Dame Legal Studies Paper No. 09-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1481287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
E G See , P Ellen , Aprill
What Critiques of Sarbanes-Oxley Can Teach About Regulation of Nonprofit Governance, 76 FORDHAM L. REV. 765, 792 (2007) (urging "consideration of legislation establishing some federal minimum standards of nonprofit governance for the IRS to enforce
Fleishman
proposing a new federal agency, but only as a third alternative if both his private and joint private/government proposals cannot be made to work , p. 187 - 88
Swords
Although one might have considered delegating regulation to the states at some time during the 1950s, the growth of the nonprofit sector
combined with the failure of the states to provide effective enforcement, have rendered this question moot
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,806
RANK
183,540
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

A Theory of Claim Interpretation

By Craig Allen Nard

Disease Management and Liability in the Human Genome Era

By Larry I. Palmer

When Silence is Golden: Why the Business Judgment Rule Should Apply to No-Shops in Stock-for-Stock Merger Agreements

By Wayne Hanewicz

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies