Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Valuation in Public Sector Agencies: Impact on Financial Reporting Through the Implementation of International Financial Standards: Focus on Canadian Workers Compensation Boards

Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 22, No. 1, January - June 2009

Posted: 9 Oct 2009

Alex Faseruk

Memorial University of Newfoundland (MUN) - Faculty of Business Administration

Daphne Rixon

Saint Mary's University

Date Written: September 30, 2009

Abstract

This study examines how the changes in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) have affected the ability of Canadian Workers’ Compensation Boards to demonstrate accountability to its stakeholders through an examination of the impact of fair value accounting for financial instruments. This paper explores the public policy implications of these standards with respect to the ease of user understanding and comparability. It comments on how IFRS would have various impacts on the Basel II Accord. This study concludes that the adoption of IFRS by public sector enterprises would distort their financial positions and key performance indicators.

Keywords: IFRS, Fair value accounting, Key performance indicators

JEL Classification: F36, G15, G18

Suggested Citation:

Faseruk, Alex and Rixon, Daphne, Valuation in Public Sector Agencies: Impact on Financial Reporting Through the Implementation of International Financial Standards: Focus on Canadian Workers Compensation Boards (September 30, 2009). Journal of Financial Management and Analysis, Vol. 22, No. 1, January - June 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1484662
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,381
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies