Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Arguments for Introducing Accrual Based Accounting in the Public Sector

6 Pages Posted: 21 Oct 2009

Cristina Aurora Bunea-Bontas

Constantin Brancoveanu University

Mihaela Cosmina Petre

Constantin Brancoveanu University

Date Written: May 1, 2009

Abstract

From a long time, accounting for public entities has been on a cash basis, with no change until the '80s when it was considered appropriate that these should move closer to commercial accounting principles practiced in the private sector. Demands for better accountability by governments and by public sector managers are being heard around the world as the public realizes that living on credit is not sustainable for individuals and the same principle applies to governments. The paper highlights the main characteristics of accrual accounting, arguments and counter-arguments on this reform and particular aspects of Public Accountancy reform in Romania through introduction of accounting-based accrual, in order to facilitate better planning, financial management and decision making in government as well as an accepted way of measuring the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of public policies.

Keywords: public sector, accrual-based accounting, public accountancy reform in Romania

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Bunea-Bontas, Cristina Aurora and Petre, Mihaela Cosmina, Arguments for Introducing Accrual Based Accounting in the Public Sector (May 1, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1491663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1491663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
4 References
P Cynthia
The Adoption of Accrual Accounting and Budgeting by Governments (Central, Federal, Regional and Local), 2003, www.fee.be FEE PSC, Accrual Accounting in the Public Sector
Application of Accrual and Cash Accounting: Implications for Small and Medium Enterprises in Metro Manila , volume 17 Posted: 1996
Miruna ; Hurduzeu , Vera Morariu
Impactul pentru România al introducerii contabilităţii de angajamente pentru instituţiile publice -Raportul Final, Studii de Impact ale Preaderării
Studiul ad-hoc no. B-4 Posted: 2002
Andy Wynne
Is the Move to Accrual Based Accounting a Real Priority for Public Sector Accounting? Posted: 2004
Andy Wynne
Accrual Accounting for the Public Sector -A Fad that has had its Day?
International Journal on Governmental Financial Management Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,936
ABSTRACT VIEWS
7,636
RANK
19,611
3 Citations
4 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Change Management & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies