Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Accounting Innovations in Local Governments. Evidences from Italian and Greek Municipalities

26 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2016 Last revised: 12 Nov 2010

Emanuele Padovani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Rebecca Levy Orelli

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Epameinondas Katsikas

University of Kent

Date Written: October 31, 2009

Abstract

Purpose: This paper aims to understand the extent of adoption of accounting techniques in Italian and Greek municipalities, and the factors affecting the specific techniques used.

Design/methodology/approach: This study reports on a survey based on medium sized and large Italian and Greek municipalities. The survey was targeted at public municipalities accountants, who represent the users of accounting techniques. In this study a set of variables were considered, namely the specific techniques and procedures used in Italian municipalities, the accounting systems, and the ICT tools.

Findings: The results of this study highlight a limited diffusion and a very poor development of accounting practices in Greece and Italy, despite their different political choices in terms of accounting systems.

Research limitations/implications: The present study is a cross country comparison between Italian and Greek municipalities. Therefore any generalizing of the conclusions beyond this context should be undertaken with care. Nevertheless, it provides an interesting analysis of the accounting practices and the diffusion process enabling their adoption, which helps to understand accounting and management changes in local governments.

Originality/value: This paper answers a previous call in literature to the use of quantitative research methods in order to generalize findings from previous case studies. This study provides empirical evidence to support the scant literature on the management accounting practices in local governments, and the institutional and contextual factors affecting their use.

Suggested Citation:

Padovani, Emanuele and Orelli, Rebecca Levy and Katsikas, Epameinondas, Management Accounting Innovations in Local Governments. Evidences from Italian and Greek Municipalities (October 31, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1497526 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1497526
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
89 References
S W Anderson , W N Lanen
Economic Transition, Strategy and the Evolution of Management Accounting Practices: The Case of India
Accounting, Organisations and Society , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 379 - 412 Posted: 1999
Crossref
E Anessi-Pessina , I Steccolini
La 'contabilità economica' dell'ente locale: problemi teorici, soluzioni tecniche, riscontri empirici
Azienda Pubblica , volume jou_vol[1].xmlText , issue 1 , p. 89 - 116 Posted: 2001
E Anessi-Pessina , G Nasi , I Steccolini
Accounting Reforms: Determinants of Local Government's Chioces
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 342 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Anessi-Pessina , I Steccolini
Effects of Budgetary and Accruals Accounting Coexistence: Evidence from Italian Local Governments
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 113 - 131 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Emanuele Padovani , Rebecca Levy Orelli , Epameinondas Katsikas
Management Accounting Innovations in Local Governments. Evidences from Italian and Greek Municipalities
26 Pages · Posted: 4 Mar 2016 · Last revised: 4 Mar 2016 · Downloads: 368
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
368
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,382
RANK
185,220
1 Citations
89 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Learning from International Public Management Reform Experience for Management Control Systems

By Linda M. English and James Guthrie

Investigating the Governmental Accounting Reform of Greek National Health System (ESY): Some Preliminary Evidence

By Filippos Stamatiadis

Evolution of the Governmental Accounting Reform Implementation in Greek Public Hospitals: Testing the Institutional Framework

By Filippos Stamatiadis and Nikolaos Eriotis

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies