Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The ‘NZ’ in 'NZ IFRS': Public Benefit Entity Amendments

Australian Accounting Review Forum, Vol. 18, No. 46, pp. 185-190, 2008

6 Pages Posted: 10 Nov 2009

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

In 1992, New Zealand adopted a sector-neutral approach to standard setting – where the difference in accounting treatment is driven by differences in the nature of transactions and not by ownership or the objectives of the reporting entity. This study reviews the impact of adaptations of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to ensure their successful application in a sector-neural environment. A fundamental question of the move to IFRS is whether the public benefit entity amendments in NZ IFRS have contaminated the IFRS for profit-orientated entities or diluted the available guidance for public benefit entities. This suggests that it is worthwhile for Australia and New Zealand to monitor and reconsider their sector-neutral approach to adopting IFRS.

Keywords: sector neutral, public sector, IFRS

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Baskerville, Rachel F., The ‘NZ’ in 'NZ IFRS': Public Benefit Entity Amendments (2008). Australian Accounting Review Forum, Vol. 18, No. 46, pp. 185-190, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1503674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
R Baskerville
Guidance for charity reporting
Chartered Accountants Journal , volume 74 , p. 64 - 69 Posted: 1995
R F Baskerville , S P Newby
Due process failure in sector-neutral accounting standard-setting
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 18 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2002
Crossref
M E Bradbury , T Van Zijl
Due process and the adoption of IFRS in New Zealand
Australian Accounting Review , volume 16 , p. 86 - 94 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Financial Reporting , Council
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 2007, File Number S7-13-07 Acceptance from Foreign Private Issuers of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance with International Financial
World Watch , volume 1 , p. 8 - 9 Posted: 2006-07
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,039
RANK
413,954
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies