Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Trust in the Resource Allocation Process of an Old University

International Journal of Economic Sciences and Applied Research, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 38-52, 2008

15 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2009

Melina M. Manochin

Aston University - Aston Business School

Date Written: December 2008

Abstract

The issue of effective management accounting systems, and especially the resource allocation procedures, have attracted considerable interest among higher education institutions in recent years.

Relevant previous research indicates that several universities adopt different approaches to the resource allocation problem, employing models and procedures that reflect their organisational arrangements and their internal socio – political dynamics. We argue that while studying accounting processes in their organisational context, the role of trust should also be considered carefully. In particular, it is very important to consider the attitudes of the individuals involved and interacting within organisational processes, and especially the trust between them, which plays an important role to the overall good governance of these processes.

In our study, the role of interpersonal trust in an old Scottish University resource allocation process is examined. The study indicates that trust is a very necessary insight to the facilitation of social structures of accountability that enhance a better governance of the resource allocation process.

Keywords: Organisational Trust, Universities, Resource Allocation, Organisational Context of Accounting

JEL Classification: M41, D73, I20

Suggested Citation:

Manochin, Melina Maria, The Role of Trust in the Resource Allocation Process of an Old University (December 2008). International Journal of Economic Sciences and Applied Research, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 38-52, 2008, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1517121
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
P Ackroyd , S Ackroyd
Problems of university governance in Britain, is more accountability the solution?
The International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 12 , issue 2 , p. 171 - 185 Posted: 1999
Albrecht S Travaglione , A
Trust in public sector senior management
International Journal of Human Resource Management , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 76 - 92 Posted: 2003
D Angluin , R Scapens
Transparency, accounting knowledge and perceived fairness in UK universities' resource allocation: Results from a survey of accounting and finance
British Accounting Review , volume 32 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
K Blomqvist
The many faces of trust
Scandinavian Journal of Management , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 271 - 286 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,495
RANK
713,739
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies