Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neither National Boundaries Nor Transnational Social Spaces: Accounting for Variations of CSR Practices in Varieties of Capitalism

18 Pages Posted: 1 Jan 2011 Last revised: 3 Jan 2011

Kenneth Amaeshi

University of Edinburgh Business School; Cranfield University - School of Management

Date Written: December 5, 2008

Abstract

The paper empirically re-examines the role of national institutions and trans-national social spaces in accounting for variations in CSR practices. Based on a longitudinal study of corporate social reporting in UK and Germany, the paper concludes that corporate stakeholder salience patterns are outcomes of interaction effects between national institutional boundaries and trans-national social spaces. It pushes the institutionalist frontier of research to corporate stakeholder salience – which is a precursor and intrinsic to both corporate accountability and corporate social responsibility. In addition, it opens a new vista of looking at corporate social reports – i.e. not only as artefacts of accountability, but also carriers and reflectors of national and trans-national characteristics and influences. The paper finally highlights implications of the findings for CSR and comparative capitalism research, respectively.

Keywords: Comparative CSR, Varieties of Capitalism, Transnational Social Spaces

Suggested Citation:

Amaeshi, Kenneth, Neither National Boundaries Nor Transnational Social Spaces: Accounting for Variations of CSR Practices in Varieties of Capitalism (December 5, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1518940 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1518940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
72 References
E Abrahamson
Managerial fads and fashions -the diffusion and rejection of innovations
Academy of Management Review , volume 16 , p. 586 - 612 Posted: 1991
Crossref
B R Agle , R K Mitchell , J A Sonnenfeld
Who Matters to CEOs? An Investigation of Stakeholder Attributes and Salience, Corporate Performance, and CEO Values
The Academy of Management Journal , volume 42 , issue 5 , p. 507 - 525 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Aguilera , G Jackson
The Cross-National Diversity of Corporate Governance: Dimensions and Determinants , volume 28 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R V Aguilera , C A Williams , J M Conley , D E Rupp
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility: a comparative analysis of the UK and the US
Corporate Governance: An International Review , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 158 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
164
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,621
RANK
416,133
72 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria: Western Mimicry or Indigenous Influences?

By Kenneth Amaeshi, A.b. C. Adi, ...

Galvanising Shareholder Activism: A Prerequisite for Effective Corporate Governance and Accountability in Nigeria

By Olufemi O. Amao and Kenneth Amaeshi

Forging Peaceful Relationships between Oil-Companies and Host-Communities in Nigeria’s Delta Region: A Stakeholder’s Perspective to Corporate Social Responsibility

By Rhuks Temitope Ako, Lawrence Ogechukwu Obokoh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies