Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Ownership and Compensation Practices on Charitable Activities

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 18 Dec 2009 Last revised: 30 Sep 2013

Leslie Eldenburg

University of Arizona

Fabio B. Gaertner

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Theodore H. Goodman

Purdue University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 30, 2013

Abstract

Recent accounting research provides evidence that similar profit-based compensation incentives are used in for-profit and nonprofit hospitals. Because charity care reduces profits, such incentives should lead for-profit hospital managers to reduce charity care levels. Nonprofit hospital managers, however, may respond differently to the same incentives because they face a different set of institutional pressures and constraints. We compare the association between pay-for-performance incentives and charity care in for-profit and nonprofit hospitals. We find a negative and significant association between charity care and our proxy for profit-based incentives in for-profit hospitals and no significant association in nonprofit hospitals. The evidence in the nonprofit sample that profit-based incentives have no significant effect on charity care levels suggests that institutional differences inherent in the nonprofit setting mitigate the negative effect of profit-based incentives on charity care.

Keywords: Nonprofit hospitals, charity care, ownership structure, profit-based incentives

JEL Classification: I18, J33, L33, M40

Suggested Citation:

Eldenburg, Leslie G. and Gaertner, Fabio B. and Goodman, Theodore H., The Influence of Ownership and Compensation Practices on Charitable Activities (September 30, 2013). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1523971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1523971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
American Hospital Association uncompensated hospital care cost fact sheet Posted: 2010-12
The Economic Contribution of Hospitals Posted: 2009-01
Nelson Ackerman
Total Compensation Philosophy -an internal document discussing the compensation practices of nonprofit hospitals provided to us by Clark Consulting Posted: 2007
J A Brickley , R L Van Horn
Managerial incentives in nonprofit organizations: Evidence from hospitals
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 45 , issue 1 , p. 227 - 249 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
484
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,874
RANK
134,863
4 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Institutional Drivers of Reporting Decisions in Nonprofit Hospitals

By Ranjani Krishnan and Michelle Yetman

The Effects of Governance on the Accuracy of Charitable Expenses Reported by Nonprofit Organizations

By Robert J. Yetman and Michelle Yetman

The Influence of Ownership on Accounting Information Expenditures

By Leslie Eldenburg and Ranjani Krishnan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies