Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contingency Factors Affecting the Adoption of Cost Accounting in Greek Public Hospitals

Posted: 26 Dec 2009

Filippos Stamatiadis

Technological Educational Institute (TEI) of Athens

Date Written: December 10, 2009

Abstract

During the last decades, several countries worldwide have introduced financial management reforms, as an important part of the New Public Management (NPM) initiative at one or more levels of government sector. These reforms were largely concentrated on the replacement or transformation of their traditional budgetary cash accounting systems towards business-like accrual accounting. Following the example of this upcoming managerial trend, in 2003 the Greek government introduced an accrual based accounting system and double-entry book-keeping method in all public hospitals, in an attempt to promote efficiency in service production.

The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, to provide an overview of the government sector reform initiatives and to present evidence regarding the adoption of the management accounting practices, such as cost accounting systems (CAS), into public hospitals that are part of the Greek National Health System (GNHS). Second, to examine the reasons why this reform has not yet shown any serious progress in the 5 years of its official enactment.

This analysis is based on the results of an empirical survey that took place during 2009. For the purposes of this survey, a structured questionnaire was prepared and sent to the Finance Directors of 132 Greek public hospitals.

The empirical evidence reveals that the process of introducing cost accounting in public hospital organizations is inadequate, with adoption rates at a mere 23%. Regarding the potential contingent factors that affect the extent of hospitals’ CAS adoption, this study demonstrates that the complexity of the imposed legal accounting framework, the accounting staff business accounting experience, the reform related training of the accounting staff, the professional support of consultants and the hospital’s director support were found to be significant determining variables.

Other variables, such as the level of accounting staff education, existing information technology status, hospital size, political support and optimal relation between management-physicians, were not found to have a significant influence on CAS adoption. Implications of these results for practice and research are provided.

Keywords: New Public Management, Accrual Accounting basis, Cost accounting systems, contingency factors

JEL Classification: M4, M48

Suggested Citation:

Stamatiadis, Filippos, Contingency Factors Affecting the Adoption of Cost Accounting in Greek Public Hospitals (December 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1527215
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,799
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies