Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigating the Governmental Accounting Reform of Greek National Health System (ESY): Some Preliminary Evidence

International Journal on Governmental Financial Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 73-97, 2009

26 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2011 Last revised: 22 Feb 2011

Filippos Stamatiadis

Technological Educational Institute (TEI) of Athens

Date Written: December 21, 2009

Abstract

During the last decades, several countries worldwide have introduced financial management reforms as an important part of the New Public Management (NPM) initiative at one or more levels of government sector, by replacing or transforming their traditional budgetary cash accounting systems towards business-like accrual accounting. Following the example of this upcoming managerial trend, the Greek government introduced in 1997 an accrual-based accounting system (ABAS) and double-entry book-keeping method in all public hospitals. The hospital sector is one of the areas where NPM reforms have been introduced in search of higher efficiency in service production. The purpose of this paper is twofold. Our first goal is to provide an overview of the government sector reform initiatives in Greece and to present evidence regarding the adoption rate of the new accounting system by the Greek public health sector. The second goal of our research is to present the perceived usefulness of the accounting information provided by the proposed accounting reform as well as the implementation problems encountered in implementing ABAS. Our analysis is based on the results of an empirical survey that took place during 2009. For the purposes of this survey, a structured questionnaire was prepared and sent to the Finance Directors of 132 Greek public hospitals.

Keywords: Accrual Accounting, Public Sector Accounting, New public Management, Public Hospitals

JEL Classification: M4, M48

Suggested Citation:

Stamatiadis, Filippos, Investigating the Governmental Accounting Reform of Greek National Health System (ESY): Some Preliminary Evidence (December 21, 2009). International Journal on Governmental Financial Management, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 73-97, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1529306
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
K Arai
Reforming hospital costing practices in Japan: an implementation study
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 425 - 451 Posted: 2006-11
Crossref
A Ballas , H Tsoukas
Accounting for the Lack of Accounting: The Case of the Greek National Health System
Human Relations , volume 57 , issue 6 , p. 661 - 90 Posted: 2004
J Balley , S W Pearson
Development of a tool for measuring and analyzing computer user satisfaction
Management Science , p. 530 - 545 Posted: 1983-05
Crossref
J Begun , B Zimmerman , K Dooley
Advances in Health Care Organization Theory San Francisco , p. 253 - 288 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
652
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,553
RANK
92,754
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Learning from International Public Management Reform Experience for Management Control Systems

By Linda M. English and James Guthrie

Management Accounting Innovations in Local Governments. Evidences from Italian and Greek Municipalities

By Emanuele Padovani, Rebecca Levy Orelli, ...

Evolution of the Governmental Accounting Reform Implementation in Greek Public Hospitals: Testing the Institutional Framework

By Filippos Stamatiadis and Nikolaos Eriotis

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies