Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Performance Auditing in Fiji: A Hermeneutical Understanding of The Emergence Phase

23 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2010

Nirmala D. Nath

Massey University

Date Written: February 7, 2010

Abstract

This paper provides an understanding of the processes which led to the emergence of public sector performance auditing in Fiji. Drawing on the hermeneutical exposition textual evidence gathered from archival documents and participant interviews is analysed with the focus to reveal how the text was used by actors such as the Auditor-General, the media, the public accounts committee, the ADB and others to create the perception ‘of the need for performance auditing’. The paper concludes that the socially and politically influential actors such as the Auditor-General and the Public Accounts Committee used ‘the concept of ‘accountability’ to craft a niche for performance auditing in the Fijian public sector.

Keywords: Auditor-General, Accountability, Hermeneutics, Performance Auditing , Public Sector

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Nath, Nirmala D., Public Sector Performance Auditing in Fiji: A Hermeneutical Understanding of The Emergence Phase (February 7, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1549430 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1549430
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Alvesson , K Skoldberg
New public management and public enterprise restructuring in Fiji
Fijian Studies , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 73 Posted: 2000
Asian Development Bank
Posted: 1995
Crossref
Annual Report of the Fiji Audit Office, Government Printery Posted: 1985
Auditor-General to the Minister of Finance Posted: 1990
Load more
4 Citations
Tie Qun Li
Problems and Countermeasures for Chinese Government Performance Auditing
Advanced Materials Research , volume 268-270 , p. 721 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Ofer Zwikael , Raghuvar Dutt Pathak , Gurmeet Singh , Shamsuddin Ahmed
The moderating effect of risk on the relationship between planning and success
International Journal of Project Management , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 435 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Hui Fan
Government performance auditing demand research based on the neo‐institutional economics
China Finance Review International , volume 2 , issue 2 , p. 100 Posted: 2012
Crossref
Taiwo Olalere
Methodology in Accounting Research: A Critique of Taxonomy
40 Pages · Posted: 3 Sep 2011 · Last revised: 19 Sep 2011 · Downloads: 1,871
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
563
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,274
RANK
111,976
4 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies