Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Chilean Government Smooth Taxes? A Tax-Smoothing Model with Revenue Collection from a Natural Resource

37 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2010

James Peery Cover

University of Alabama - Department of Economics, Finance and Legal Studies

Roberto Pasten

University of Talca

Date Written: November 9, 2009

Abstract

Does the Chilean government smooth taxes? This paper argues that the answer is yes, but only if one takes into account royalties from copper. During the past ten years there has been a serious debate in Chile initially regarding the sustainability of the Chilean government’s fiscal deficit and more recently regarding what to do with the budget surpluses generated by the high price of copper. The policy debates have neglected the issues of whether fiscal policy is efficient and intertemporally optimal. Tests of the intertemporal efficiency of the fiscal deficit have ignored one important feature of the fiscal process in most developing countries - that governments in these countries collect revenues not only from conventional sources but also from the exploitation of natural resources. Addressing this shortcoming in the literature, this paper develops and estimates a model that can be used to test whether Chilean fiscal policy has been optimal. The results provide strong evidence for tax smoothing when royalties from copper are incorporated into the model, but only weak evidence if they are not.

Keywords: Fiscal Policy, Tax Smoothing, Present Value Test

JEL Classification: E62, E6

Suggested Citation:

Cover, James Peery and Pasten, Roberto, Does the Chilean Government Smooth Taxes? A Tax-Smoothing Model with Revenue Collection from a Natural Resource (November 9, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1550257 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1550257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Adler
Has Sweden's government budget policy been too discretionary? Evidence from a generalization of the tax smoothing hypothesis. Working Papers in Economics No. 89 Posted: 2002
R J Barro
On the determination of the public debt
Journal of Political Economy , volume 87 , p. 940 - 71 Posted: 1979
Crossref
Y Baytelman , K Cowan , J De Gregorio
Politica economico-social y bienestar: El caso de Chile. Serie Economia Nr. 56. Centro de Economia Aplicada Posted: 1999
R J Caballero
Consumption puzzles and precautionary savings
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 25 , p. 113 - 149 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
121
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,756
RANK
534,865
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Spend Now, Pay Later? Tax Smoothing and Fiscal Sustainability in South Asia

By Paul Anthony Cashin, Nadeem Ul Haque, ...

The Intertemporal Approach to the Current Account: Evidence for Chile

By Sergio Salas

Tax Tilting and Politics: Some Theory and Evidence for Latin America

By James Peery Cover and Roberto Pasten

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies