Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Concessions: Political, Commercial and Regulatory Tensions in Accounting for European Roads PPPs

Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming

50 Pages Posted: 25 Mar 2010

Anne Stafford

The University of Manchester - Manchester Business School

Basilio Acerete

University of Zaragoza

Pamela Stapleton

The University of Manchester - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: March 17, 2010

Abstract

Governments increasingly use private finance to fund roads infrastructure. In particular the European Commission has promoted the use of public private partnerships (PPPs) to deliver the projects forming the trans-European Network. This use of private finance raises important questions about how public monies and assets are accounted for.

The paper examines firstly, accounting for roads PPPs in Spain and the UK, countries which not only have considerable experience in the use of private finance for the provision of roads, but also act as exemplars of a number of differences which may be significant from an international perspective in terms of financial reporting and economic outcomes. Secondly, it examines the tensions between national, European and international accounting pronouncements.

Our findings suggest that the business environment has influenced the development of accounting policy. In Spain a powerful toll sector presence within the legal framework has led to substantial variations, having real economic impact. In the UK, the accounting regulator has prevailed over political concerns. In Europe, conflict remains between political choice and technical accounting. Since PPP projects are on the increase across the world these findings have global relevance, as the adoption of international accounting pronouncements will not remove these conflicts.

Keywords: IFRIC 12, public private partnerships, off balance sheet accounting, public sector accounting

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Stafford, Anne and Acerete, Basilio and Stapleton, Pam, Making Concessions: Political, Commercial and Regulatory Tensions in Accounting for European Roads PPPs (March 17, 2010). Accounting and Business Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1573496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
B Acerete , J Shaoul , A Stafford
Taking its toll: the private financing of roads in Spain
Public Money & Management , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 19 - 26 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Inmovilizado no Financiero de las Administraciones Públicas
AECA Posted: 2005
D Albalate , G Bel
Regulating concessions of toll motorways: an empirical study on fixed vs. variable term contracts'
Transportation Research Part A , volume 43 , p. 219 - 229 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Albalate , G Bel , X Fageda
Privatization and regulatory reform of toll motorways in Europe
Governance: An International Journal of Policy, Administration and Institutions , volume 22 , issue 2 , p. 295 - 318 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,492
RANK
333,158
1 Citations
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Public-Private Partnerships and Prices: Evidence from Water Distribution in France

By Eshien Chong, Freddy Huet, ...

Competitive Bidding for a Long-Term Electricity Distribution Contract

By Stephen C. Littlechild

Auctions, Ex Post Competition and Prices: The Efficiency of Public-Private Partnerships

By Eshien Chong, Freddy Huet, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies