Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutions Matter: Can New Jersey Reverse Course?

George Mason University Mercatus Center Working Paper No. 09-30

76 Pages Posted: 29 Mar 2010

Eileen Norcross

George Mason University - Mercatus Center

Frederic Sautet

The Catholic University of America (CUA) - Busch School of Business

Date Written: July 1, 2009

Abstract

New Jersey entered the 2008 recession in a weakened fiscal and economic condition. With the state’s economy and revenues closely linked to Wall Street, the collapse of the financial sector and its aftershocks - rising unemployment and falling income leaves New Jersey facing “a historic revenue collapse, and the most significant downturn in its modern history,” according to the state’s Treasurer. The recession is severe, but, this fiscal dilemma is not new. The state has experienced structural deficits regularly over the past 20 years.

This paper presents a series of reforms based on the successful experience of other governments. We begin with a background discussion of the challenges New Jersey will face in implementing these reforms, by reviewing the state of the state and the loss of the “Old-Time Fiscal Religion,” the foundation of public finance until the Keynesian revolution of the 1940s. We explain the limits of public policy and government intervention. We explore the importance of inter-jurisdictional competition and direct democracy and conclude with recommendations for institutional and policy reforms.

Keywords: New Jersey, Fiscal Crisis, Taxation, Public Spending

JEL Classification: H00, H1, H2, H7

Suggested Citation:

Norcross, Eileen and Sautet, Frederic E., Institutions Matter: Can New Jersey Reverse Course? (July 1, 2009). George Mason University Mercatus Center Working Paper No. 09-30, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1579772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1579772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
$2,000
Abbott Funding: New Jersey's Court needs a preschool education , volume 112 Posted: 2009-03-29
J Peter , Mazzei
New Jersey has provided supplemental funding to local schools for education since 1817, but abuses by the legislature including tapping into the State's School Fund culminating in the
New Light on New Jersey's , volume 38 , p. 1140 - 1141
Constitution's "thorough and efficient" language reveals the framers were not departing, but rather supporting, the 1871 Act. Specifically, that a free public education is guaranteed for children aged five to 18-through a statewide property tax distributed to school districts based "solely on the population of school-aged children
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
75
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,222
RANK
741,983
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

State & Local Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies