Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

45 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2010

Christine Petrovits

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Catherine Shakespeare

University of Michigan - Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Aimee Shih

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Date Written: March 31, 2010

Abstract

This study examines the causes and consequences of internal control deficiencies in the nonprofit sector using a sample of 27,495 public charities from 1999 to 2007. We first document that the likelihood of reporting an internal control problem increases for nonprofit organizations which are in poor financial health, growing, more complex, and/or smaller. We then present evidence that the disclosure of weak internal controls over financial reporting is negatively associated with subsequent donor support received after controlling for the current level of donor support and other factors influencing donations. We likewise report a negative association between internal control problems and subsequent government grants. Our results suggest that donors and government agencies, important sources of capital for nonprofit organizations, react either directly or indirectly to internal control information.

Keywords: internal control, nonprofit organizations, donors, government grants

JEL Classification: I18, I28, L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Petrovits, Christine and Shakespeare, Catherine and Shih, Aimee, The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations (March 31, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1582765 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1582765
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
J Fishman
Improving charitable accountability
Maryland Law Review , volume 62 , p. 218 - 287 Posted: 2003
M Fremont-Smith
The search for greater accountability of nonprofit organizations: recent legal developments and proposals for change
Fordham Law Review , volume 76 , p. 609 - 646 Posted: 2007
W Ge , S Mcvay
The disclosure of material weaknesses in internal control after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Accounting Horizons , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 137 - 158 Posted: 2005
Crossref
C Grassley
Strengthening the nonprofit sector. The Hill Posted: 2006-07-12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,582
ABSTRACT VIEWS
11,043
RANK
26,796
13 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

By Gregory D. Saxton, Daniel Neely, ...

Audit Value and Charitable Organizations

By Karen A. Kitching

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies