Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why the Joint Powers Authority Refunding Bond Model Works: A Critique of the Attorney General’s Claim of Unconstitutionality

12 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2010

Joseph L. J. Appel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: April 25, 2010

Abstract

In 2007, amid concerns that cash-out refunding bonds were legally unsound and might violate state law, State Senator Joseph Simitian submitted five questions to the California Attorney General addressing the legality of cash-out refunding bonds. Of particular interest is Question 5, which asks whether a school district may sell refunding bonds to a joint powers authority with an above-market interest rate. The Attorney General opined that such a financing arrangement would violate the state constitution because it results in new, non-voter approved local government debt. This Comment is a critique of the Attorney General’s answer to Question 5 that focuses on, inter alia, a problematic assumption, dicta cited as precedent, and a substance-over-form argument that does not conform with existing case law.

Keywords: cash out refunding, municipal, bonds, joint powers authority, jpa, attorney general, simitian, school district, local government, financing

Suggested Citation:

Appel, Joseph L. J., Why the Joint Powers Authority Refunding Bond Model Works: A Critique of the Attorney General’s Claim of Unconstitutionality (April 25, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1595720 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1595720
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
53
ABSTRACT VIEWS
824
RANK
897,570
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Constitutional Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies