Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost and Benefits of Voluntary Disclosures by Nonprofit Organizations

Posted: 18 May 2010

Saleha Khumawala

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Teresa P. Gordon

University of Idaho

Date Written: May 18, 2010

Abstract

Nonprofit organizations can make voluntary disclosures useful to donors through annual reports that describe their accomplishments and thank donors for their support. Donors may be motivated to make future contributions to a nonprofit organization based on either the content of the annual report or the increased level of transparency that the production of an annual report signals. To examine whether voluntary disclosure within an annual report is associated with tangible benefits in the form of donations, we look to a line of research that began with Weisbrod and Dominguez (1986). In these models donations represent the demand for nonprofit goods and services. As with any economic model, demand is negatively related to the price of giving but fundraising (advertising) can increase demand. By adding a voluntary disclosure variable to a demand model, we find that voluntary disclosure level is significant in predicting donations received in the following year. We then examine the differences between nonprofit organizations that distribute an annual report and those that do not. While nonprofit organizations that do not distribute an annual report are generally smaller and younger, the important differences appear to be higher fundraising costs and lower efficiency statistics. After controlling for management style, administrative costs, ability to meet industry efficiency norms, and industry group, we find no difference in contributions in the following year. This suggests that proprietary costs do affect the voluntary disclosure decision.

Keywords: nonprofit, tax-exempt organizations, contributions, voluntary disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M48, L31

Suggested Citation:

Khumawala, Saleha and Neely, Daniel and Gordon, Teresa P., The Cost and Benefits of Voluntary Disclosures by Nonprofit Organizations (May 18, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1611189
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,339
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies