Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Reforms and Financial Health: Which Effects on Municipal Governments? The Case of Italy

25 Pages Posted: 21 May 2010

Emanuele Padovani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Rebecca Levy Orelli

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Giuseppe Farneti

University of Bologna

Date Written: May 20, 2010

Abstract

Financial health is a necessary condition under which governments must operate, and is one of the goals of NPM. While there has been a closely spaced succession of NPM-like reforms in the last twenty years, there are several indications that suggest Italian municipal governments' financial health has deteriorated in the last few years. In this study we conduct a statistical analysis using an official dataset that includes all the Italian municipal governments accounts from 2000 to 2007. We aim at studying the trend of the financial health of Italian municipal governments. We conclude that during these height years improvements are limited to a narrow number of municipal governments, usually located in the North and with a population of less than 5.000 inhabitants, while Southern municipalities have worsened, even severely, their financial health. This suggests a call for a future agenda focused at facing the progressive detriment of financial health dimensions of the majority of municipalities of the South.

Keywords: Municipal Governments, Financial Health, Accounting Reforms, New Public Financial Management, Performance Measurement, Italy

JEL Classification: H83, M48

Suggested Citation:

Padovani, Emanuele and Orelli, Rebecca Levy and Farneti, Giuseppe, Accounting Reforms and Financial Health: Which Effects on Municipal Governments? The Case of Italy (May 20, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1612321 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1612321
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
B I Alijarde , V C López
El Analisis financiero en las administraciones locales
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , volume 108 , p. 475 - 503 Posted: 2001
Crossref
L Anselmi
L'azienda 'comune Posted: 1995
E Borgonovi
Principi e sistemi aziendali per le amministrazioni pubbliche Posted: 1996
G Capano , E Gualmini
La pubblica amministrazione in Italia Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
210
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,085
RANK
331,643
1 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies