Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting China: Macro-Policies and Micro-Practices in Public Sector Changes

23 Pages Posted: 30 May 2010

Luca Zan

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University - School of Business

Date Written: May 29, 2010

Abstract

Transformations taking place in China are of crucial importance in the development of the world economy. The international community is turning its attention to China’s move towards a market economy and assessing the likely impact on the years ahead. This paper aims to plot the evolution of administrative reforms in China with particular reference to the state (and therefore public sector), because the modernization of the state is an issue that will persist into the future, and because the state itself has been driving the country’s transformation towards a market economy in a deliberate way.

Within this framework, the paper revisits the debate on administrative reforms at different levels; i.e., fiscal, budgeting, government organizations, and Public Sector Units (PSUs). In addition to reconstructing the evolution of norms and procedures as part of deliberate strategies by the centre, the paper also investigates how actual practices at the micro level have followed this process of reform, with reference to the administration of cultural heritage at the municipal level, based on a field research project.

We find that a lack of relation with the role played by actual accounting transformation seems to characterize the current debate on policies. Serious discrepancies can be found between expectations and actual changes, and between macro and micro policies, and micro practices.

Keywords: Public Sector Accounting, Budgeting in China, China public sector, China transformation, Cultural Heritage China, Management of Cultural Heritage

Suggested Citation:

Zan, Luca and Xue, Qingmei, Budgeting China: Macro-Policies and Micro-Practices in Public Sector Changes (May 29, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1617584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1617584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R W Bahl , J Martinez-Vazquez
Fiscal Federalism and Economic Reform in China
Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Posted: 2003
Crossref
K E Brødsgaard
Institutional Reform and the Bianzhi System in China
The China Quarterly , p. 361 - 386 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J P Burns
Chinese Civil Service Reform: The 13th Party Congress Proposals
The China Quarterly , issue 120 , p. 739 - 770 Posted: 1989
Crossref
H But , B Palmer
Downsizing the Central Government: The Case of the People's Republic of China
M@n@gement , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 330 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
220
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,746
RANK
317,158
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Recentralization in China?

By Ehtisham Ahmad, Li Keping, ...

China's Fiscal System: A Work in Progress

By Richard M. Bird and Christine P.w. Wong

Taxation in Latin America: Reflections on Sustainability and the Balance between Equity and Efficiency

By Richard M. Bird

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies