Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resource Allocation Decisions in the Public Sector: A Model Based on a Study of Policing

25 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2010

Zoe Yan Zhuang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Paul M. Collier

Monash University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: June 17, 2010

Abstract

This paper identifies four approaches to resource allocation decisions in public services from the literature: a rational approach using devices such as budgets, cost-benefit analysis, statistical techniques, etc.; non-rational approaches such as satisficing, muddling through, and garbage can models of decision making; expectations analysis based on what managers believe is expected of them; and heuristics based on experience and values.

Our research question was to understand, at the micro or operational level in public sector settings, how managers faced with finite resources and uncertain demand actually make resource allocation decisions and which of the approaches (or combinations of approaches) were used.

A multimethods approach is adopted, comprising qualitative data collection and the analysis of timesheet data using statistical techniques and self-organising maps to identify how resource allocation decisions are made where resources are limited but demand is unpredictable and uncontrollable.

The research findings are that rational devices, heuristics (informed by norms and values) and expectations (incorporating the non-rational approach) can be seen as complementary and mutually reinforcing, and are difficult to separate. Individual approaches (rational, non-rational, expectations, or heuristics) to resource allocation decisions provide an inadequate explanation for complex resource allocation decisions in a public sector setting.

This is a model of resource allocation decision making that is useful both theoretically and practically, and is particularly pertinent to public sector settings where finite resources must be allocated to uncontrollable demand.

Keywords: public sector, resource allocation, heuristics, expectations

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhuang, Zoe Yan and Collier, Paul M., Resource Allocation Decisions in the Public Sector: A Model Based on a Study of Policing (June 17, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1626070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1626070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
D I Ashby , P A Longley
Geocomputation, Geodemographics and Resource Allocation for Local Policing
Transactions in GIS , volume 9 , p. 53 - 72 Posted: 2005
Crossref
A D Athanassopolous
Decision Support for Target-based resource Allocation of Public Services in Multiunit and Multilevel Systems
Management Science , volume 44 , p. 173 - 87 Posted: 1998
Crossref
B Back , K Sere , H Vanharanta
Managing Complexity in Large Data Bases using Self-Organizing Maps. Accounting Management and Information Technologies , volume 8 , p. 191 - 210 Posted: 1998
J G Birnberg , L Turopolec , S M Young
The Organizational Context of Accounting. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 8 , p. 111 - 140 Posted: 1983
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
636
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,646
RANK
95,771
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies