Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Social Purpose Alliances: Confronting the HIV/AIDS Pandemic in Africa

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2010

Dean Neu

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Abu Shiraz Rahaman

University of Calgary - Haskayne School of Business

Jeff Everett

University of Calgary - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 25, 2010

Abstract

Social purpose alliances are an increasingly important organizational form used by governments and supranational institutions to address large-scale social problems. Little is known, however, about how these alliances are organized and directed. This study investigates one such alliance, focusing on how accounting practices are being used to arrange, coordinate, and control a geographically-dispersed and heterogeneous group of actors involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Ghana, Africa. It considers how the World Bank and the Ghana AIDS Commission are using accounting to assemble and coordinate over 3000 NGO and community-based organizations which, in turn, provide HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment activities throughout the country. The analysis shows not only the centrality of accounting in the alliance-building process but also the tensions that exist between those activities aimed at governing individual actors and on-the-ground health activities. Archival documents along with 57 semi-structured interviews carried out between 2003 and 2006 provide the data for the study.

Keywords: Social Purpose Alliances, Africa, HIV/AIDS, World Bank

Suggested Citation:

Neu, Dean and Rahaman, Abu Shiraz and Everett, Jeffery S., Accounting for Social Purpose Alliances: Confronting the HIV/AIDS Pandemic in Africa (February 25, 2010). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1628147
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
4 Citations
Michael Fischer , Ewan Ferlie
Resisting Hybridisation between Modes of Clinical Risk Management: Contradiction, Contest, and the Production of Intractable Conflict
Accounting, Organizations and Society, Vol. 38, No. 1, pp. 30-49, 2013 · 58 Pages · Posted: 16 Sep 2013 · Downloads: 98
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Collins G. Ntim
Corporate Governance, Corporate Health Accounting and Firm Value: The Case of HIV/AIDS Disclosures in Sub-Saharan Africa
Ntim, CG. (2016) Corporate Governance, Corporate Health Accounting and Firm Value: The Case of HIV/AIDS Disclosures in Sub-Saharan Africa. International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 51, No. 2/3 · 57 Pages · Posted: 22 Oct 2015 · Downloads: 179
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Ahmed Abdelnaby Diab
The Implications of the COVID-19 Pandemic for the Auditing and Assurance Processes
Diab, A. (2021). THE IMPLICATIONS OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC FOR THE AUDITING AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES. Journal of Legal, Ethical and Regulatory Issues, 24, 1-8. · 8 Pages · Posted: 7 Dec 2021 · Downloads: 850
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Delphine Gibassier , Diane-Laure Arjaliès
Can Financialization Save Nature? The Case of Endangered Species
Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 77 Pages · Posted: 9 Mar 2023 · Last revised: 26 Mar 2024 · Downloads: 79
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,328
RANK
177,685
4 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webtrust Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

Professionalization in Action: Accountants' Attempt at Building a Network of Support for the Webstrust E-Commerce Seal of Assurance

By Yves Gendron and Michael Barrett

The Construction of Auditability: MBA Rankings and Assurance in Practice

By Clinton Free, Steven Salterio, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies