Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Health-Related Tax Provisions of PPACA and HCERA: Contingent, Complex, Incremental and Lacking Cost Controls

New York University Review of Employee Benefits and Executive Compensation, Forthcoming

Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 301

53 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2010

Edward A. Zelinsky

Yeshiva University - Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law

Date Written: June 30, 2010

Abstract

Americans must, into the indefinite future, confront difficult issues pertaining to health care and health care costs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (HCERA) do not alter the status quo as much as their advocates and their detractors contend nor do PPACA and HCERA resolve the fundamental challenges confronting the U.S. health care system, including the problem of escalating health care outlays. In important respects, PPACA and HCERA will exacerbate that problem.

Four factors underpin this sobering assessment. First, PPACA and HCERA, while significant, are more incremental in nature than either their proponents or their opponents acknowledge. These laws build upon – indeed, extend - the existing systems of private health insurance and employer-provided health care. Second, many provisions of PPACA and HCERA have delayed effective dates. It is an open question whether future Presidents and Congresses will allow these deferred provisions to go into effect as scheduled. Third, key provisions of PPACA and HCERA are enormously complex. By virtue of such complexity, these laws will impose prodigious enforcement burdens upon the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and equally immense compliance obligations on taxpayers, in particular, small businesses and many individuals of modest means. The prospects for a complexity-induced political backlash to PPACA and HCERA are considerable. Fourth, these acts merely postpone the tough decisions that must be made about health care and about health care costs in particular. These laws’ efforts to control health care outlays are tepid and deferred. Moreover, PPACA and HCERA, by expanding access to medical services, will increase demand for such services and thereby stimulate health care expenditures.

While Republicans and Democrats alike portray the adoption of PPACA and HCERA as a pivotal moment in American life, we Americans are fated to conduct a prolonged – indeed, an indefinite – debate about health care and its costs. PPACA and HCERA write an important, but hardly final, chapter in that debate.

This is not surprising. Democracies rarely make radical breaks from the status quo nor should they. Cost control entails sacrifice which the American political system is today incapable of demanding from the American people.

Keywords: Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act, Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, Health Care, Cost Control, Premium Assistance Tax Credit, Small Employer Health Insurance Tax Credit, Health Care Mandate, "Cadillac" Health Care Plans, Medicare Tax on Investment Income

Suggested Citation:

Zelinsky, Edward A., The Health-Related Tax Provisions of PPACA and HCERA: Contingent, Complex, Incremental and Lacking Cost Controls (June 30, 2010). New York University Review of Employee Benefits and Executive Compensation, Forthcoming, Cardozo Legal Studies Research Paper No. 301, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1633556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Code § , volume 105 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Crossref
Code § 6051
, volume 6051
Crossref
A) and 223(f)(4)(A), 26 U.S.C. § § 220(f)(4)(A) and 223(f)(4)(A)
Code § § , volume 220 , issue 4
A) and 223(d)(2)(A), 26 U.S.C. § § 106(f)
Code § § , volume 106 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
596
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,900
RANK
104,096
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cardozo Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies