Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Investigation of Audit Pricing in the Public Sector: The Case of Greek LGOs

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 19 Jul 2010 Last revised: 9 May 2012

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Stergios Leventis

International Hellenic University (IHU)

Date Written: July 16, 2010

Abstract

This paper investigates the associations between audit pricing and multidimensional characteristics of local governments by using a sample of Greek municipalities. The Greek institutional setting is interesting because it is politically pluralistic. Moreover, independent auditors appointed through a bid process exclusively perform the audits. Our results suggest a considerable variation on audit fees which is mainly driven by politically related factors indicating the importance of relevant theoretical anticipations in audit pricing in the public sector. Agency costs appear strong enough to explain audit pricing. We also confirm prior findings on the significance of audit complexity and size. Results also suggest that audit fees are reduced when an internal team dedicated to accrual accounting is appointed. Therefore our conclusions offer practical implications for policy setters and regulators in the public sector in relation to audit quality.

Keywords: Audit fees, pricing audit services, audit effort, public sector accounting, Local Governments, Greece

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Leventis, Stergios, An Empirical Investigation of Audit Pricing in the Public Sector: The Case of Greek LGOs (July 16, 2010). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1641441 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1641441
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,408
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies