Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Generational Accounting as a Tool to Evaluate the Fiscal Sustainability of Estonia

The University of Tartu Faculty of Economics and Business Administration Working Paper No. 74-2010

48 Pages Posted: 5 Aug 2010

Mikk Medijainen

University of Tartu - Department of Economics

Date Written: August 4, 2010

Abstract

Generational accounting is a relatively recent methodology that measures the fiscal burden government policies impose on future generations. Comparing the fiscal burden of future generations to the burden levied on current newborns yields the generational imbalance. Micro data from the Household Budget Survey is combined with data from the national accounts to construct the generational accounts for current and future generations. The results show that as expected there was a relatively mild intergenerational imbalance (64%) in Estonia in 2009. The generational accounts are sensitive to growth forecasts, while population forecasts seem to be of less influence. To achieve intergenerational balance, an imminent and sustained tax rise to increase tax revenue by 9% should be enforced. Alternatively, the indexing of pensions could be made less generous or government net collective expenditures should be cut by approximately 23%.

Keywords: generational accounting, fiscal sustainability, Estonia

JEL Classification: H61, H62, H63, H68

Suggested Citation:

Medijainen, Mikk, Generational Accounting as a Tool to Evaluate the Fiscal Sustainability of Estonia (August 4, 2010). The University of Tartu Faculty of Economics and Business Administration Working Paper No. 74-2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1653283 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1653283
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
J Ablett , Z Tseggai-Bocurezion
Lifetime Net Average Tax Rates in Australia -A Generational Accounting Study
The Economic Record , volume 76 , p. 139 - 151 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G F Adams , P A Prazmowski
Why Are Saving Rates in East Asia So High? Reviving the Life Cycle Hypothesis
Empirical Economics , volume 28 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Age distribution of students with studies financed by the state budget 2005/06 -2008/09. E-mail from Ministry of Education and Research Posted: 2009
A Ando , F Modigliani
The Life-Cycle Hypothesis of Saving: Aggregate Implications and Tests
American Economic Review , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 55 - 84 Posted: 1963
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,558
RANK
576,212
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

An International Comparison of Generational Accounts

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff and Willi Leibfritz

Generational Accounting in Korea

By Alan J. Auerbach and Young-jun Chun

Population Aging, Fiscal Policies, and National Saving: Predictions for Korean Economy

By Young-jun Chun

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies