Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Management Process of Centres for Services for Voluntary Organisations from a Stakeholder Management Perspective

Euricse Working Papers No. 010|10

24 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2010

Ericka Costa

University of Trento - Department of Computer and Management Sciences (DISA)

Tommaso Ramus

University of Trento

Date Written: August 1, 2010

Abstract

Considering the assumption that the performance of Nonprofit Organisations (NPOs) depends upon stakeholders’ perceptions, in an NPO, strategic management of stakeholders entails not only responding to their requests, but also guiding them in order to align their needs, values and objectives with the mission of the organisation. Given the background on the managerial characteristics that distinguish an NPO and a profit organisation, and the different role of a stakeholder approach in these two kinds of organisations, the paper will discuss the strengthens and weaknesses of a particular type of Italian NPO – Centres for Services for Voluntary Organisations (CSVs) – and will suggest that a proactive dialogue between CSVs and their stakeholders could help these organisations align their stakeholders’ claims to the organizational mission and to better define and develop strategies and activities coherent with the mission. The research was carried out using the action research model (Lewin, 1946) and the findings are based on the analysis of a sample of 61 CSVs throughout Italy.

Note: Downloadable document is in Italian.

Keywords: voluntary organizations, mission, stakeholders, empirical analysis

JEL Classification: L31, M21

Suggested Citation:

Costa, Ericka and Ramus, Tommaso, Analysis of the Management Process of Centres for Services for Voluntary Organisations from a Stakeholder Management Perspective (August 1, 2010). Euricse Working Papers No. 010|10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1655663 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1655663
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
M Andreaus
Le aziende non profit: circuiti gestionali, sistema informativo e bilancio d'esercizio Posted: 1996
D Balser , J Mcclusky
Managing Stakeholder Relationship and a Nonprofit Organization Effectiveness
NonProfit Management and Leadership , volume 15 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Cenpro
Progetto sperimentale sulle organizzazioni di secondo livello nell'ambito del volontariato Posted: 2003
M B E Clarkson
A Stakeholder Framework for Analizing and Evaluating Corporate Social Performance
Academy of Management Review , volume 20 , issue 1 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,576
RANK
518,107
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Euricse Working Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies