Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mission, Strategies and Performance Evaluation in Nonprofit Organisations From a Stakeholder Management Approach

Euricse Working Papers No. 007|10

20 Pages Posted: 10 Aug 2010

Ericka Costa

University of Trento - Department of Computer and Management Sciences (DISA)

Tommaso Ramus

University of Trento

Date Written: May 1, 2010

Abstract

Nonprofit organisations (NPOs) have emerged as important not-for-profit private actors providing goods or services directly related to their explicit aim to create social value for the community in which they work. In order to maximize its social value creation, an NPO firstly has to define its mission according to stakeholders’ expectations, then it has to carry it out considering how it is defined by stakeholders, and finally it has to measure its performance and account for it related to how their stakeholders evaluate performance achievement. Since the mission achievement and effectiveness of NPOs are not easy to estimate and to assess, it follows that NPO effectiveness is always a matter of comparison, and that NPO effectiveness is a social construction, which depends on the evaluation given by the stakeholders who have an impact on and are impacted by the mission of the organisation. For these reasons, in the present working paper we assert that managers of NPOs have to use strategic stakeholder relationships, and not only adaptive or reactive approaches, in order to negotiate outcomes which reflect win-win situations for different stakeholders.

Note: Downloadable document is in Italian.

Keywords: nonprofit, mission, performance, game theory, stakeholders

JEL Classification: L31, M21

Suggested Citation:

Costa, Ericka and Ramus, Tommaso, Mission, Strategies and Performance Evaluation in Nonprofit Organisations From a Stakeholder Management Approach (May 1, 2010). Euricse Working Papers No. 007|10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1655655 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1655655
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
M Andreaus
Le aziende nonprofit: circuiti gestionali, sistema informativo e bilancio d'esercizio Posted: 1996
M Andreaus
Un modello di osservazione economico-aziendale per le aziende nonprofit Posted: 1997
M Andreaus
Finalismo aziendale ed esigenze di rendicontazione: aspetti teorici e primi risultati empirici
La rendicontazione sociale nei gruppi aziendali Posted: 2007
K R Andrews
The Concept of Corporate Strategy Posted: 1971
Load more
1 Citations
Michele Andreaus , Chiara Carini , Maurizio Carpita , Ericka Costa
La Cooperazione in Italia: Un’Overview (Cooperation in Italy: An Overview)
Euricse Working Paper No. 27/12 · 35 Pages · Posted: 10 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 159
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
483
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,823
RANK
135,200
1 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Euricse Working Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies