Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
UBIT to the Defense! ESOPs and Government Entities

Tax Notes, Vol. 128, p. 317, July 18, 2010

5 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2010

Calvin H. Johnson

University of Texas at Austin - School of Law

Ellen P. Aprill

Loyola Law School Los Angeles; University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) - School of Law

Date Written: July 18, 2010

Abstract

The unrelated business income tax is imposed on otherwise exempt organizations to prevent the shifting of business assets to exempt entities. Entities that are exempt (or believe they are exempt) from UBIT have recently acted as accommodation parties in transactions, allowing high-rate taxpayers to avoid tax on economic income that those taxpayers own in substance. This proposal would end the UBIT exemption for employee stock ownership plans, governmental pension funds, and other governmental affiliates.

Keywords: unrelated business income tax, UBIT, tax reform, shelf project, ESOP

JEL Classification: H20, K34

Suggested Citation:

Johnson, Calvin Harsha and Aprill, Ellen P., UBIT to the Defense! ESOPs and Government Entities (July 18, 2010). Tax Notes, Vol. 128, p. 317, July 18, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1658080
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
139
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,656
RANK
478,514
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies