Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Assessment and Benchmarking in the Public Sector: An Example from New Zealand

Benchmarking: An international journal

Posted: 15 Aug 2010

Kate Wynn-Williams

University of Otago - Department of Accountancy and Finance

Date Written: December 13, 2005

Abstract

Public sector organisations have to respond to calls for accountability from both funders and recipients of the services, as well as report on operations within constrained financial resources. Given the absence of profit motives and the difficulties of performance assessment in public sector organisations, the purpose of this paper is to consider the role of benchmarking as a tool to help overcome some of the problems of performance assessment in the public sector. The paper includes a brief review and discussion of current and recent trends and approaches in public sector benchmarking in New Zealand. The difficulties of establishing meaningful benchmarking exercises are discussed in relation to management accounting’s approach to management control systems. PHARMAC is used as a New Zealand example; it is responsible for obtaining the best health outcomes that are reasonably achievable through the use of pharmaceuticals for eligible people, within the funding provided. The paper proposes that a combination of internal benchmarking, process benchmarking and increased public documentation will enhance reporting systems in any public sector organisation.

Keywords: benchmarking, public sector organisation, performance management systems

JEL Classification: I19

Suggested Citation:

Wynn-Williams, Kate, Performance Assessment and Benchmarking in the Public Sector: An Example from New Zealand (December 13, 2005). Benchmarking: An international journal, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1658252
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,477
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies