Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Pressures to Provide Social Benefits and the Earnings Management Behavior of Nonprofits: Evidence from the US Hospital Industry

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 15 Aug 2010 Last revised: 16 Sep 2015

Brian Vansant

Auburn University - Raymond J. Harbert College of Business - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 5, 2015

Abstract

This study examines the relationship between institutional pressures to provide social benefits and the discretionary accrual behavior of nonprofit firms. I examine this issue within the context of US nonprofit hospitals, an economically significant and politically rich setting where firms face considerable institutional pressure to provide an important social benefit: charity care. I argue that institutional pressures on nonprofits to provide higher levels of social benefits imply that lower profits should be reported. I develop theory and provide evidence which suggests that, due to competing private incentives to report higher profits, nonprofit managers strategically use discretionary accruals to increase accounting earnings when the social benefits their firms have provided in the current period exceed external stakeholders’ normative expectations. The findings from this study inform the ongoing political debate regarding the appropriateness of tax-exemptions for US nonprofit hospitals and should therefore be of interest to both regulators and policymakers. In addition, this study provides timely insights for researchers regarding how institutional pressures can affect managers’ reporting behaviors in other settings where similar competing reporting incentives exist between managers’ private benefits and stakeholder expectations related to social benefits.

Keywords: earnings management, nonprofit hospitals, charity care, institutional theory

JEL Classification: I18, L31, L38, M4

Suggested Citation:

Vansant, Brian, Institutional Pressures to Provide Social Benefits and the Earnings Management Behavior of Nonprofits: Evidence from the US Hospital Industry (August 5, 2015). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1658483 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1658483
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,766
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Institutional Drivers of Reporting Decisions in Nonprofit Hospitals

By Ranjani Krishnan and Michelle Yetman

The Effects of Governance on the Accuracy of Charitable Expenses Reported by Nonprofit Organizations

By Robert J. Yetman and Michelle Yetman

The Influence of Ownership on Accounting Information Expenditures

By Leslie Eldenburg and Ranjani Krishnan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies