Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Shared Service Centers in Local Governments: Rationale and Rationality in Three Pioneering Cases

ACCOUNTING REFORM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR: MIMICRY, FAD OR NECESSITY, EXPERT COMPTABLE MEDIA, pp. 205-214, Evelyne Lande & Jean-Claude Scheid, eds., 2006

Posted: 28 Aug 2010

Timo Hyvonen

Tampere University; Tampere University - School of Business Administration

Janne Jarvinen

University of Oulu

Lasse Oulasvirta

Tampere University - Department of Administrative Science

Jukka Pellinen

University of Jyväskylä

Date Written: August 28, 2006

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to explore the reasons and implementation of municipal accounting and payroll shared service centres (SSC’s) in Finland. Of special interest are the issues of how did the reforms spread from municipality to another, and what rationales were used in legitimating the acceptance of the innovation.

After the accruals-based accounting reform of 1995 had been successfully implemented, many Finnish municipalities initiated plans to reorganize their accounting functions. In the name of efficiency, increasing number of local governments have begun to reorganize their accounting functions to financial shared service centres (SSC) each serving two or more local governments. In practise this means that municipal accounting functions were outsourced to service centres which were no longer directly part of the municipal organisation The basis of the current reform is not in jurisdiction but more so in a belief that benefits can be gained from its actualisation. Data for the study was collected via open interviews and archival analysis within the first three SSC cases in Finland.

Forming of the accounting SSC’s seems to promote the idea of the importance of accounting controls as an esstential characteristic of a modern organisation. The increasing adoption of accounting related concepts (accountingization) in municipal management is seen to promote the idea of service centres as a road to corporatisation and eventual privatisation (Power & Laughlin, 1992). The service centres are often modelled after private sector organisations, up to the point of having the judicial form of a limited company. In these reforms, it seems as if the corporate organisation structure represents an ideal model of the organisation, the complete organisation (Brunsson and Sahlin-Andersson, 2000).

Keywords: Municipal Accounting, Shared Service Centres (SSC), New Public Management (NPM)

JEL Classification: L33

Suggested Citation:

Hyvonen, Timo and Jarvinen, Janne and Oulasvirta, Lasse and Pellinen, Jukka, Financial Shared Service Centers in Local Governments: Rationale and Rationality in Three Pioneering Cases (August 28, 2006). ACCOUNTING REFORM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR: MIMICRY, FAD OR NECESSITY, EXPERT COMPTABLE MEDIA, pp. 205-214, Evelyne Lande & Jean-Claude Scheid, eds., 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1667417
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,812
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies