Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Organizations in the People’s Republic of China

COMPARATIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, pp. 428-477, Klaus J. Hopt and Thomas von Hippel, eds., Cambridge University Press, 2010

87 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2010

Thomas von Hippel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Knut Benjamin Pissler

Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

The steady growth in numbers of Nonprofit Organizations in the People’s Republic of China (NPOs) proves that this sector is becoming a more and more important part of China’s economic system. The Chinese legislators are aware of this fact and are actively trying to regulate all different aspects of NPOs. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive overview on the legal framework for NPOs in China.

First, the Chinese term for NPO is defined followed by an analysis of some empirical data about the development of NPOs in China. The second part of the paper then looks into the purpose, characteristics and the establishment of the existing legal forms for NPOs according to institutional law. The third part focuses on tax law relating to NPOs highlightening new developments regarding possible tax benefits for donors and the exemption from corporate income tax of NPOs according to two Notices issued by Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation in November 2009. The forth part deals with fiduciary obligations of the board members of NPO. The fifth part investigates the internal and external governance of NPOs and the enforcement of legal obligations through state supervision, third parties and the mechanisms of reporting, auditing and disclosure of information. In the sixth part questions regarding charitable solicitation are shortly explained. The following seventh part focuses on the questions, to what extent NPOs are allowed to conduct economic activities or to establish enterprises, and how creditors of NPO are protected. Before ending with some concluding remarks, some additional light is shed on reform proposals and standards of best practice for NPOs in China in the eighth part of this paper.

Keywords: Nonprofit Organizations, Associations, Civil Society Organisations, Social Organisations, Civil Non-Business Institutions, Foundations, Charitable Trust, People’s Republic of China, Donors, Dual Management System, Taxation, Governance, Foreign Nonprofit Organizations, Investment of Assets

JEL Classification: K10

Suggested Citation:

von Hippel, Thomas and Pissler, Knut Benjamin, Nonprofit Organizations in the People’s Republic of China (September 1, 2010). COMPARATIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, pp. 428-477, Klaus J. Hopt and Thomas von Hippel, eds., Cambridge University Press, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1669906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
222 References
See Rawert , Der Stiftungsbegriff Und Seine Merkmale -Stiftungszweck
STIFTUNGSRECHT IN EUROPA , volume 109 Posted: 2001
See below at II B 2
OFFICIAL COMMENTARY ON FOUNDATIONS
Crossref
G E See , Yunsong
Nonprofit Organizations & the Reform of China's Public Institutions
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CIVIL SOCIETY LAW , volume 2 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
618
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,587
RANK
99,374
222 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies