Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Examination of State and Local Revocations of Tax-Exempt Status for Nonprofit Hospitals

Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2005

Posted: 5 Sep 2010

Ran Barniv

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Kreag Danvers

Indiana University of Pennsylvania

Joanne Healy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: 2005

Abstract

In recent years, many states and local authorities have revoked the tax exemptions for several nonprofit hospitals. In this study we examine whether hospital-specific and governmental revenue-need characteristics, organized by four underlying constructs, affect state and local tax authorities' decisions to revoke nonprofit hospitals' tax-exempt status. Based on analyses of state and local tax laws, we distinguish three types of taxes paid by hospitals: Medicaid taxes; state revenue-based taxes; and local taxes. We separately examine the effects of these characteristics on the revocation of the tax-exempt status for each type. We use survivorship analysis and fit logistic regressions that employ panel data to study the risk of revocation for each type of tax. Our results suggest that the likelihood that state authorities assess Medicaid taxes increases with the size of the tax base (i.e., patient revenue) and ability to pay, but decreases with lower revenue needs. We find that the likelihood of revocation for hospitals paying state revenue-based tax increases with the size of the tax base (i.e., total operating revenue), but decreases with public health benefits provided (e.g., charity care) and lower revenue needs. Finally, we show that the size of the tax base (public health benefit provided) increases (decreases) the likelihood of revoking the tax-exempt status for hospitals that pay local tax. Implications for local tax authorities and hospital managers are briefly discussed.

Keywords: Revocation of Tax-Exempt Status, Nonprofit Hospital, Survivorship Analysis and Logistic Regressions Panel Data

JEL Classification: E62, H25, H29, C23, C25

Suggested Citation:

Barniv, Ran and Danvers, Kreag and Healy, Joanne, An Empirical Examination of State and Local Revocations of Tax-Exempt Status for Nonprofit Hospitals (2005). Journal of American Taxation Association, Vol. 27, No. 2, 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1671967
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,519
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies