Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Medicare Capital Prospective Payment Regulation on Hospital Capital Expenditures

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 9-40, Spring 2000

Posted: 5 Sep 2010

Ran Barniv

Kent State University - Department of Accounting

Kreag Danvers

Indiana University of Pennsylvania

Joanne Healy

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: March 30, 2000

Abstract

Our study examines the impact of the capital prospective payment system (CPPS), implemented by Medicare in 1991, on capital expenditures and cost-effective behavior of non-proprietary hospitals. As noted in the paper, we use audited financial statement data for a large national sample of hospitals. Univariate analyses demonstrate a statistically significant decline in capital expenditures in the years following the CPPS regulation without significant changes in relative aggregate operating expenses. These preliminary findings suggest that CPPS induces some cost-effective behavior by hospital managers. Ordinary least-squares (OLS) regressions indicate that capital expenditures before and after CPPS are differently affected by the changes in most explanatory variables. Further OLS regressions indicate that high-cost (low-cost) hospitals decrease (increase) capital expenditures following CPPS, once other factors are controlled for. Managerial accounting implications for hospitals include the effect of the regulation on capital budgeting decisions. Greater accounting disclosure may be necessary so that alternative modes of coping with the regulation can be discerned. Policymakers and regulators should also be aware that although reductions in capital expenditures may have favorable short-term effects of reducing health care costs, a potentially negative public health impact may result if capital expenditures continue to decrease.

Keywords: Medicare Regulation, Hospital, Capital Expenditure

JEL Classification: H51, I18, L31

Suggested Citation:

Barniv, Ran and Danvers, Kreag and Healy, Joanne, The Impact of Medicare Capital Prospective Payment Regulation on Hospital Capital Expenditures (March 30, 2000). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 19, No. 1, pp. 9-40, Spring 2000, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1671958
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies