Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Financial Indicators to Determine Financial Health of Italian Municipalities

23 Pages Posted: 19 Sep 2010

Emanuele Padovani

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Francesca Manes Rossi

Università Degli Studi di Salerno - Department of Management Research

Rebecca Levy Orelli

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: September 6, 2010

Abstract

Context: Governments are being pressured by citizens and other stakeholders to improve their efficiency and effectiveness while, at the same time, they are seeing reductions in available resources. This is the result of several waves of New Public Management-style reforms which have developed into the New Public Governance view (Osborne, 2009). At the same time, recent global financial stress challenges the financial sustainability of governments, both at national and local levels.

Problem: Financial health is a necessary condition under which governments must operate. Nevertheless, while the literature concentrates on different models of governance within the public sector, there is a lack of research on financial health measurement system.

Purpose: In light of this problem, we juxtapose the analysis of financial health measurement systems with Considine’s four governance models applied to the Italian local governments context.

Theoretical frameworks: The paper grounds its theoretical frameworks from the literature concerning various governance model types, [Procedural, Corporate, Market, and Network Governance] (Considine, 1999, 2001, 2003) and financial health (Boyett and Giroux, 1978; Downing, 1991; Alijarde and Lopez, 2001).

Methodology: Through a multiple case study approach of three Italian local governments we combine documental analysis of compulsory financial statement indicators and interviews with internal key users aimed to understand the effective use of financial indicators to determine financial health in practice.

Findings: A local government needs to have a specific set of financial performance indicators attuned to the prevalent governance model used for its services delivery.

Originality, value and practical implications: On a theoretical perspective, this study highlights to what extent each governance model requires specific financial health measures, in order to stress that measuring financial health is a contingent issue, which cannot be assessed regardless the prevailing governance setting implemented. Under a practical point of view, this study identifies the features of different types of financial health measurement systems in various governance models.

Keywords: Governance Models, Financial Sustainability, Performance Measurement, Italian Local Governments

JEL Classification: H83, M48

Suggested Citation:

Padovani, Emanuele and Manes Rossi, Francesca and Orelli, Rebecca Levy, The Use of Financial Indicators to Determine Financial Health of Italian Municipalities (September 6, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1679128 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1679128
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
M Barzeley
Breaking through Bureaucracy: A New Vision for Managing in Government Posted: 1992
J Beckett-Camarata
Identifying and Coping with Fiscal Emergencies in Ohio Local Governments
International Journal of Public Administration , volume 27 , issue 9 , p. 615 - 630 Posted: 1964
Crossref
M Bolton , R Malmrose , W Ouchi
The organization of innovation in the USA andJapan: neoclassical and relational contracting
Journal of Management Studies , volume 21 , issue 5 , p. 653 - 79 Posted: 1994
Crossref
J Broadbent , J Guthrie
Public sector to public services: 20 years of "contextual" accounting research
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 129 - 169 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
640
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,391
RANK
95,018
8 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Public Sector to Public Services: 20 Years of 'Contextual' Accounting Research

By Jane Broadbent and James Guthrie

Institutional Pressures for Adopting New Cost Accounting Systems in Finnish Hospitals: Two Longitudinal Case Studies

By Janne Järvinen

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies