Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Green Accounting: Issues and Challenges

The IUP Journal of Managerial Economics, Vol. VIII, No. 3, pp. 46-60, August 2010

Posted: 25 Sep 2010

Himanshu Sekhar ROUT

Utkal University

Date Written: August 2010

Abstract

National income measures like Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Net Domestic Product (NDP) have been used as measures of the economic progress and standard of living in almost all countries for a long time. Decision makers and researchers use these measures for new policy initiatives and to analyze policy alternatives respectively. The traditional Systems of National Accounting (SNA) are now recognized as inadequate, as they cannot accurately measure the contribution of environment and the impact of economic activities on it due to the exclusion of the non-marketed services provided by natural assets, inconsistent treatment of depreciation on man-made and natural assets, and inadequate representation of the degradation of environment. This gives a false impression of increase in income to the decision makers and researchers, while natural wealth is actually reducing. Hence, green accounting can be useful for sustainable national income accounting and in removing the current biases.

Suggested Citation:

ROUT, Himanshu Sekhar, Green Accounting: Issues and Challenges (August 2010). The IUP Journal of Managerial Economics, Vol. VIII, No. 3, pp. 46-60, August 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1681949
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,981
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: National Income & Product Accounts eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies