Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Visual Modes of Governmentality: Traffic Lights in a Housing Association

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Oct 2010

Melina M. Manochin

Aston University - Aston Business School

T.J. Stan Brignall

Aston University

Alan D. Lowe

University of Waikato

Claire Howell

Aston Business School

Date Written: October 25, 2010

Abstract

This study focuses on the use of traffic lights by a Registered Social Landlord (RSL) as a visual representation of self conduct that reflects a way of thinking, acting and constituting a ‘well governed, well managed and viable’ housing association. We show that the visible representation of traffic lights introduced by the regulator as indicators of performance has been used widely by the RSL to reflect two self-imposed principles of continuous improvement and self assessment. In this context the different accounts of governmentality within the RSLs board reports are studied and some significant insights suggested.

Keywords: housing associations, traffic lights, governmentality

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Manochin, Melina Maria and Brignall, T.J. Stan and Lowe, Alan D. and Howell, Claire, Visual Modes of Governmentality: Traffic Lights in a Housing Association (October 25, 2010). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1697572
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies