Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Committees in Scottish Local Authorities 1998-2005

Public Policy and Administration, Vol. 22, pp. 303-318, July 2007

Posted: 27 Oct 2010

William Henry

Glasgow Caledonian University

Margaret Crawford

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Melina M. Manochin

Aston University - Aston Business School

James McKendrick

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Brenda A. Porter

University of Exeter Business School - Department of Accounting

William Stein

Glasgow Caledonian University - Division of Risk

Date Written: July 2007

Abstract

During the last 15 years corporate governance has become increasingly prominent in the public sector. The Audit Commission's 1993 report on probity in local government recommended the establishment of audit committees. However, progress on this was slow, as demonstrated by a survey of Scottish local authorities by the authors in 1998. Recent major changes in government in Scotland at both a local and national level have prompted councils to improve the accountability, openness and integrity of their operations. One major aspect of this exercise was the formation of scrutiny committees to provide objective scrutiny of the process and audit committees were the most common vehicle for this. This article explores recent developments in Scottish local government and their impact on audit committees. The article also reports the results of a 2005 survey of Scottish local authorities and compares these with the 1998 survey. This indicates a significant growth in the number of audit committees in Scottish councils and although the level of their perceived effectiveness is patchy, they are a more important feature of local government than they were in 1998.

Keywords: audit committees, corporate governance, local auhtorities,scrutiny

Suggested Citation:

Henry, William and Crawford, Margaret and Manochin, Melina Maria and McKendrick, James and Porter, Brenda A. and Stein, William, Audit Committees in Scottish Local Authorities 1998-2005 (July 2007). Public Policy and Administration, Vol. 22, pp. 303-318, July 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1698068
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,231
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies