Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investigation of the Impact of ‘Payment by Results’ on Performance Measurement and Management in NHS Trusts

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Nov 2010

Lynne Conrad

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Pinar Guven-Uslu

University of East Anglia - Norwich Business School

Date Written: September 1, 2010

Abstract

This paper presents the findings of a study into the impact of ‘Payment by Results’ (PbR) on performance measurement and management in three National Health Service (NHS) Trusts in the East of England. The study employs concepts from structuration theory and institutional theory to provide a holistic analysis of change in these organisations. Structuration theory is shown to be valuable in understanding the context of change and in highlighting the emergent contradictions that resulted from new approaches to performance management, as new conceptions of organisational activity premised on ‘cost’ and ‘income’ were introduced. Institutional theory was employed to analyse the process of change in specific organisational contexts, given its emphasis on the importance of contradiction for praxis, as organisational members enact the change process. Significant findings include the importance of financial performance, adoption of a business-focussed attitude and co-operative relationships between clinicians, managers and accountants in achieving change.

Keywords: NHS performance management, structuration, institutional theories

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Conrad, Lynne and Guven-Uslu, Pinar, Investigation of the Impact of ‘Payment by Results’ on Performance Measurement and Management in NHS Trusts (September 1, 2010). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1701632
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,183
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies