Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Consultant-Researchers in the Design and Implementation Process of a Pro-Gramme Budget in a Local Government Organization

Management Accounting Research, Vol. 22, 2011

Posted: 2 Nov 2010

Henk J. ter Bogt

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business - Dept. of Accounting

Jan van Helden

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 1, 2010

Abstract

The role of consultant-researchers in the design and implementation process of a pro-gramme budget in a local government organization Henk J. ter Bogt (corresponding author), G. Jan van Helden both authors are from the University of Groningen, Faculty of Economics and Business, P.O. Box 800, 9700 AV Groningen, The Netherlands. This paper deals with our role as consultant-researchers in the improvement trajectory of a programme budget used in a Dutch province. For the 2009’s programme budget the newly designed budget format was used in two pilot programmes. One year later we participated in the implementation of this format in all programmes of the 2010 budget. This paper discusses our activities in these different stages. Our aim is to show how consultant-researchers can contribute to the development of management accounting innovations in the public sector and how institutional theory can play a role here. Our interventions were directed at increasing the coherence between the logics underlying NPM-like innovations and the management ac-counting techniques adopted in actual practice.

Keywords: Consultant-researchers, Management accounting change, Local government, Institutional theory

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

ter Bogt, Henk J. and van Helden, Jan, The Role of Consultant-Researchers in the Design and Implementation Process of a Pro-Gramme Budget in a Local Government Organization (November 1, 2010). Management Accounting Research, Vol. 22, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1701029
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies