Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Auditing: Improving the Quality of Political and Democratic Processes?

Critical Perspectives on Accounting, Vol. 21, No. 8, 2010

Posted: 2 Nov 2010

Henk J. ter Bogt

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business - Dept. of Accounting

Sandra Tillema

University of Groningen - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: November 1, 2010

Abstract

In an attempt to improve the quality of political and democratic processes, governmental organizations could decide to introduce performance auditing. However, earlier studies suggest that performance auditing can actually damage the quality of these processes, especially when it leads to information about the inputs, outputs and efficiency of programmes or activities. This raises the question of whether performance audits that lead to other types of information have similar effects. This paper analyses the effects of two local government audit committees in the Netherlands, both of which conduct performance audits that produce a broad set of information. It concludes that the lack of success of performance auditing, in terms of its contribution to the quality of political and democratic processes, cannot fully be explained by the type of information that is produced. In order to strengthen their role, audit bodies must find a balance between maintaining an independent position and responding to the expectations and requirements of their key stakeholders, which include the elected body, the Executive and the official organization.

Keywords: performance auditing, public sector, local government, politics, democracy, accountability, independence, responsiveness

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

ter Bogt, Henk J. and Tillema, Sandra, Performance Auditing: Improving the Quality of Political and Democratic Processes? (November 1, 2010). Critical Perspectives on Accounting, Vol. 21, No. 8, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1701032
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies