Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Emergence of Triple Bottom Line Reporting in Spain

Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 60, pp. 195-219, 2011

25 Pages Posted: 3 Nov 2010 Last revised: 26 Jun 2013

Francisco Javier Husillos-Carqués

Universidad Pública de Navarra

Carlos Larrinaga

University of Burgos

María José Álvarez-Gil

Charles III University of Madrid - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: November 2, 2010

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to have a better understanding of the influence of both external and internal contexts on social and environmental disclosure made by organizations, focusing on the emergence of triple bottom line reporting in Spain. More specifically, this study is based in semi-structured interviews with 30 managers of 20 Spanish organizations involved in the preparation of TBL reports. The narratives provided by the interviewees suggest that the internal (organizational and individual) and external context, is important in the explanation of social and environmental disclosure practices. One of the main findings of the study is the existence of certain assemblages of external and internal influences which could be enhancing or inhibiting the development of the TBL reports in the Spanish context.

Note: Downloadable document is in Spanish.

Keywords: TBL Reports, Qualitative Analysis, Internal and External Influences

JEL Classification: M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Husillos-Carqués, Francisco Javier and Larrinaga, Carlos and Álvarez-Gil, María José, The Emergence of Triple Bottom Line Reporting in Spain (November 2, 2010). Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad, Vol. 60, pp. 195-219, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1701799
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
C Adams
Internal organisational factors infl uencing corporate, social and ethical reporting: beyond current theorising
Auditing, Accounting and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 731 - 757 Posted: 2002
Revista , De Financiación Y Contabilidad
C Adams , Larrinaga-Gonzalez , C
Engaging with organizations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
C Adams , Narayanan , V
The standardization of sustainability reporting
Sustainability Accounting and Accountability , p. 70 - 85 Posted: 2007
Load more
3 Citations
Carlos Larrinaga , Jose M. Moneva , Eduardo Ortas
Veinticinco años de Contabilidad Social y Medioambiental en España: pasado, presente y futuro (Twenty-Five Years of Social and Environmental Accounting in Spain: Past, Present and Future)
Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting (Forthcoming) · 21 Pages · Posted: 19 Jun 2019 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Andrea Perez , Carlos López-Gutiérrez , Mª del Mar García de los Salmones , Paula San-Martin
Stakeholder Salience, Positive Csr News and the Market Value of Banks
Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, · 36 Pages · Posted: 24 Oct 2019 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Federica Balluchi , Arianna Lazzini , Riccardo Torelli
Credibility of Environmental Issues in Non-Financial Mandatory Disclosure: Measurement and Determinants
Journal of Cleaner Production, Forthcoming · 31 Pages · Posted: 8 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,216
RANK
682,707
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies