Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Resource Allocation Decisions: A Study of Marginal versus Average Spending

40 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2010 Last revised: 25 Jan 2012

Karen A. Kitching

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Pamela C. Smith

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 19, 2012

Abstract

Charitable organizations are often evaluated by donors and regulators based on various efficiency ratios, including the program ratio. We explore whether charities conform to donor pressure to maintain or improve program ratios when allocating resources. We use a sample of 5,626 charities between 1986 and 2007 and compare marginal spending patterns to average spending patterns in the prior period when budgets change. We provide evidence that in most instances, spending patterns do not change when budget increases are less than fifteen percent. That is, program ratios do not change on average. However, the paper documents that small charities, those that rely little on contributions, charities not funded by the government, and organizations that do not fundraise make resource allocation decisions that decrease the program ratio when budgets increase. These findings provide evidence that some charities feel less pressure to conform to donor pressure than others. We find that when budgets decrease, charity managers make resource allocation decisions that decrease the program ratio. This asymmetry suggests that charity managers are more willing to report declining program ratios when budgets decrease but not improve program ratios when budgets increase.

Keywords: Charity, Nonprofit, Efficiency, Program Ratio, Marginal Spending

JEL Classification: H39, L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Kitching, Karen A. and Alston Roberts, Andrea and Smith, Pamela C., Nonprofit Resource Allocation Decisions: A Study of Marginal versus Average Spending (January 19, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1712011 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1712011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
M Anderson , R Banker , S Janakiraman
Are selling, general and administrative costs sticky
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 41 , p. 47 - 63 Posted: 2003
Crossref
W Baber , A Roberts , G Visvanathan
Charitable organizations" strategies and program-spending ratios
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 343 Posted: 2001
Crossref
R Bhattacharya , D Tinkelman
How tough are Better Business Bureau/Wise Giving Alliance financial standards? Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 2009
W Bowman
Should donors care about overhead costs? Do they care? Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 35 , p. 288 - 310 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,424
RANK
377,395
2 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

By Christine Petrovits, Catherine Shakespeare, ...

Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

By Gregory D. Saxton, Daniel Neely, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies