Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Exploratory Study of the Utilisation of the UK’s Prudential Borrowing Framework

Public Policy and Administration, Vol. 25, pp. 347-363, October 2010

Posted: 25 Nov 2010

Stephen J. Bailey

Glasgow Caledonian University

Darinka Asenova

Glasgow Caledonian University

John Hood

Glasgow Caledonian University - Caledonian Business School

Melina M. Manochin

Aston University - Aston Business School

Date Written: November 23, 2010

Abstract

This article considers the utilisation of the UK’s Prudential Borrowing Framework (PBF) and the associated Prudential Code for local government capital finance. It finds that the increased flexibility and local freedom are at the cost of less financial certainty in terms of the risks borne by local authorities and local tax payers. The PBF seems to encourage a less formal approach to risk, being considered inevitable and handled if and when adverse risk outcomes occur. Consequently capital projects may lack affordability, sustainability and prudence. The Prudential Indicators required by the Code are not easily understood by non-specialists and their calculation cannot be used to replace sound judgment or to identify the best financing option.

Keywords: Capital Finance, Prudential Borrowing Framework, Prudential Code, Public Sector, Accounting Practice, Risk Management

Suggested Citation:

Bailey, Stephen James and Asenova, Darinka and Hood, John and Manochin, Melina Maria, An Exploratory Study of the Utilisation of the UK’s Prudential Borrowing Framework (November 23, 2010). Public Policy and Administration, Vol. 25, pp. 347-363, October 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1713692
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,039
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies