Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Management for a Tax Administration: Integrating Organisational Diagnosis to Achieve Systemic Congruence

UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2010-56

27 Pages Posted: 23 Nov 2010

Muzainah Mansor

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: November 19, 2010

Abstract

While there are various studies on tax administration performance, a study which holistically analyses a tax administration performance management system is lacking in the literature. This paper proposes a performance management framework for a tax administration that integrates the congruence model for organisational behaviour diagnosis. The central idea of the congruence model is that the effectiveness of an organisation in achieving its objectives depends on congruence between the different parts of the organisational components in the transformation process. It is emphasised that if a tax administration is to adopt a performance management system in an interactive way, it needs to be embraced at an operational as well as behavioural level.

Keywords: Tax administration

Suggested Citation:

Mansor, Muzainah, Performance Management for a Tax Administration: Integrating Organisational Diagnosis to Achieve Systemic Congruence (November 19, 2010). UNSW Law Research Paper No. 2010-56, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1713051
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
B S Jit , Gill
The Nuts and Bolts of Revenue Administration Reform Posted: 2003
Ibid
Crossref
Margaret Levi
Of Rule and Revenue Posted: 1988
Crossref
Malcolm Gillis
Tax Reform: Lessons from Postwar Experience in Developing Countries
Tax Reform in Developing Countries , p. 492 - 520 Posted: 1989
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
867
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,290
RANK
63,808
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Law & Justice Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies