Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Interdependencies of Intra- and Inter-Organisational Controls and Work Practices - The Case of Domestic Care of the Elderly

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 26 Nov 2010

Kalle Kraus

Stockholm School of Economics

Johnny Lind

Stockholm School of Economics

Martin Calrron-Wall

Stockholm School of Economics

Date Written: November 25, 2010

Abstract

The paper gives a grounded account of inter-organisational controls and work practices in the public sector to complement previous literature’s strong focus on inter-organisational customer-supplier relationships in the private sector. We draw theoretically on Hopwood’s (1974) administrative, social and self controls, which enable us to analyse the influence of non-managerial controls on behaviour. Empirically, a case study of inter-organisational cooperation between home help units and health centres is used as the basis of analysis. Most inter-organisational controls were developed locally and involved a mix of administrative, social and self controls. Intra- and inter-organisational social and self controls were important forms of control which impacted on intra- and inter-organisational work practices and we see the need for a broad conceptualisation of control (Van der Meer-Kooistra and Scapens, 2008). Inter-organisational social controls created an informal hierarchy that by-passed the formal hierarchies of the two organisations. Self controls reinforced the importance of being flexible to accommodate pensioner’s wishes and needs in specific care situations. We also show the importance of the internal financial situation of home help units for the analysis of the interdependencies of intra- and inter-organisational controls and work practices.

Keywords: inter-organisational control, social controls, self controls, public sector, financial crisis

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Kraus, Kalle and Lind, Johnny and Calrron-Wall, Martin, The Interdependencies of Intra- and Inter-Organisational Controls and Work Practices - The Case of Domestic Care of the Elderly (November 25, 2010). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1714929
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies