Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting in Italian Local Governments: What They do not Report

SOCIAL ACCOUNTING AND PUBLIC MANAGEMENT, S.P. Osborne and A. Ball, eds., pp. 192-202, Accountability for the Common Good, Routledge, 2010

Posted: 25 Nov 2010 Last revised: 30 Nov 2010

Federica Farneti

University of Bologna - School of Economics, Management, and Statistics

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Benedetta Siboni

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: November 25, 2010

Abstract

The World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED 1987) has argued for the importance of “sustainable development”. However, to date various studies have focused on corporate sustainability (Gray and Bebbington 1993; Elkington 1997; Bebbington 2007), rather than the public or not-for-profi t sectors (Ball and Grubnic 2007).

This lack of sustainability research is significant because public sector organisations should play a part in sustainability (Ball and Bebbington 2008). The public sector accounts for approximately 40 percent of all economic activity in western economies, and consequently has a “huge operational impact on the environment, society and economy” (Ball and Grubnic 2007, 243). Because of this impact, the public sector can make a significant contribution to sustainability by adopting “green” policies and activities.

Also, as a purchaser of private sector services and products, the public sector can use this influence to contribute to sustainability (for example, green public procurement, energy use, recycling rates). With an overarching mission to deliver public policies in the interest of society generally, the public sector has a responsibility to create policies that support sustainability (Ball and Grubnic 2007).

Internationally, social and sustainability reporting has been widely debated (Adams and McNicholas 2007), both within the academic literature and at a political and practical level. For instance, Adams and Narayanan (2007, 71) state that “the reporting of sustainability issues by organisations is an important part of the sustainability agenda”. Within this debate, the accounting and reporting techniques used are also central to discussions about sustainability (Unerman, Guthrie, and Striukova 2007). The various Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines (GRI 2006) are of particular interest because of their attempts to provide an international framework of reporting for all types of organisations. In Italy, a recent study demonstrated that there is a trend for Italian local governments to produce social reports, with 14 percent of municipalities and 38 percent of provinces producing social reports in 2005 (Siboni 2007).

This study aims to explore the social reporting practices in a selection of “better practice” Italian local government organisations and, in particular, to observe what has and has not been reported in comparison to the GRI guidelines. It uses an analytical framework developed in a prior study, in which the voluntary sustainability practices of a sample of Australian public sector organisations were examined (Guthrie and Farneti 2008).

The specific research questions considered are: 1. What has been reported in Italian local government social reports? 2. What has or has not been reported in terms of the GRI guidelines?

This examination of Italian local government organisations establishes that their stand-alone social reports are actually “social reports” in name only. There were relatively few environmental, social, labour, product, or wider societal disclosures when compared to the GRI guidelines.

Keywords: Sustainability Reporting, Legitimacy Theory, Social Report, Local Government, Content Analysis

JEL Classification: H4, H7, M18, M19, M41, O1, Q2

Suggested Citation:

Farneti, Federica and Guthrie, James and Siboni, Benedetta, Sustainability Reporting in Italian Local Governments: What They do not Report (November 25, 2010). SOCIAL ACCOUNTING AND PUBLIC MANAGEMENT, S.P. Osborne and A. Ball, eds., pp. 192-202, Accountability for the Common Good, Routledge, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1714973
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,402
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies