Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing a Culture of Reporting Transparency and Accountability: The Lessons Learned from the Voluntary Sector Reporting Awards for Excellence in Financial Reporting Transparency

26 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2010

Steven Salterio

Queen's University - Smith School of Business

Patrick Legresley

Queen's School of Business

Date Written: October 6, 2010

Abstract

The nonprofit sector in Canada is large and very diverse, ranging from religious groups and front-line charities to sport clubs and cultural organizations of all types and sizes. In 2007, the CA-Queen’s Centre for Governance established the Voluntary Sector Reporting Awards to encourage more transparent financial reporting in the not-for-profit sector. Since then, we’ve had the opportunity to examine at the annual reports of over 70 different Canadian charities ranging in size from $250,000 to over ten million in revenue. Given these organizations self-select into the competition, if anything we are seeing reports of not-for-profits that think they are doing a good job of reporting. We find that the common theme for superior annual reports is the telling of a story that engages readers and gives them sound reasons for supporting a charity and its work. But this is not just a creative writing opportunity or an advertisement; it is an accountability document for an organization’s stakeholders that can be very much improved on as a comparison of the best practices we found across organizations shows. Hence, we discuss ten lessons that we learned in the VSRA competition about how to improve this important accountability document.

Keywords: financial reporting, transparency, corporate governance, not for profits

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M14, L30, L33, D64

Suggested Citation:

Salterio, Steven E. and Legresley, Patrick, Developing a Culture of Reporting Transparency and Accountability: The Lessons Learned from the Voluntary Sector Reporting Awards for Excellence in Financial Reporting Transparency (October 6, 2010). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1722930 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1722930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
S M Ayer , M H Hall , L Voderak
Perspectives on Fundraising: What Charities Report to the Canada Revenue Agency. Image Canada: The Muttart Foundation , volume 53 Posted: 2009
Transparency and Accountability , volume 8 Posted: 2004
Crossref
June
, volume 55
Crossref
Hallmarks of an Effective Charity , volume 16 Posted: 2004-04
Load more
4 Citations
Susan D. Phillips
Shining Light on Charities or Looking in the Wrong Place? Regulation-by-Transparency in Canada
VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 881 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Qiu Chen
Director Monitoring of Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations: The Effects of Expense Disclosure Transparency, Donor Evaluation Focus and Organization Performance
40 Pages · Posted: 7 Jan 2013 · Last revised: 16 Apr 2015 · Downloads: 221
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Carolyn Cordery
Regulating Small and Medium Charities: Does It Improve Transparency and Accountability?
VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 831 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Carolyn J. Cordery
Light-Handed Charity Regulation: Its Effect on Reporting Practice in New Zealand
17 Pages · Posted: 26 Mar 2012 · Downloads: 97
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
485
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,891
RANK
134,537
4 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Profit Maximization Versus Disadvantageous Inequality: The Impact of Self-Categorization

By Stephen M. Garcia, Avishalom Tor, ...

Ranks and Rivals: A Theory of Competition

By Stephen M. Garcia, Avishalom Tor, ...

Rankings, Standards, and Competition: Task vs. Scale Comparisons

By Stephen M. Garcia and Avishalom Tor

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies