Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Political Display and Symbolic Reasoning of Budgeting - Organizational Control Systems in an Indonesian Higher Education Institution

Fifth Asia-Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting (APIRA), Auckland, New Zealand, July 2007

21 Pages Posted: 19 Dec 2010

Imam Wahyudi

Asian Banking-Finance & Informatics Institute of Perbanas - School of Accounting

Date Written: December 19, 2010

Abstract

Purpose – This study examines the impact of the paternalistic managerial style of Javanese culture in an Indonesian higher education institution on the role budgeting used within the organization. Design/Methodology/Approach –This is an ethnographic case study of a business school – a private higher education institution in Indonesia – known by its abbreviation as PBS Jakarta in which the researcher is part of the case being studied as an academic and administrative staff member. An historical analysis is performed by confirmation of other organizational participants’ understanding about the school’s control system. To provide official organizational and descriptive historical contexts of the case and to make available the powerful link between what people say and what they actually do, documents and archival records are also used. The case was taken for the period of 1987 to 1999 in which the researcher was part of the case being studied – complete participation.

Findings – The paper shows that instead of formal organizational structures being adopted, informal relationships, paternalistic management and physical control dominated everyday managerial practices in the school. Budgeting facilitated a political deal among the school’s stakeholders. It functioned as a rationalized myth to the process and a symbolic reason to display that managerial conducts were “rational” and financially responsible – not merely an efficiency measurement.

Research Limitations/Implications – The paper contributes to the accounting literature in understanding accounting in its organizational and cultural contexts.

Originality/Value – The paternalistic managerial style put into practice in the school contradicted the formal accounting systems adopted. Consequently, the adoption was mostly ceremonial in order to display to the owners and other stakeholders that the management of the school was "rational" and responsible.

Keywords: accounting, informal and physical control, Javanese culture, ethnographic case study, Indonesia

Suggested Citation:

Wahyudi, Imam, A Political Display and Symbolic Reasoning of Budgeting - Organizational Control Systems in an Indonesian Higher Education Institution (December 19, 2010). Fifth Asia-Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting (APIRA), Auckland, New Zealand, July 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1728564 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1728564
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
M A Abernethy , E Vagnoni
Power, Organization Design and Managerial Behaviour
Accounting Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M Alvesson
Communication, Power and Organization Posted: 1996
J Amat , S Carmona , H Roberts
Context and Change in Management Accounting Systems: a Spanish Case Study
Management Accounting Research , volume 5 , p. 107 - 122 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S L Ansari , J Bell
Symbolism, Collectivism and Rationality in Organizational Control
Accounting Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 4 - 27 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
294
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,938
RANK
236,750
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Political Economy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies