Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Disclosure and Human Rights in the Oil Industry

ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURE AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE OIL INDUSTRY, pp.194-215, C. Mallin, ed., Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, 2009

22 Pages Posted: 9 Jan 2011

Matthias Beck

Queen's University Belfast

Steve Toms

University of Leeds - Faculty of Business; University of Leeds - Division of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

During the past decade, companies operating in environmentally and political sensitive areas have placed increasing emphasis on corporate social responsibility (CSR) and corporate social disclosure (CSD). While there is clear evidence that the amount of ‘socially’ relevant information reported within the annual reports of most companies has increased – often in both absolute and relative terms – it is less apparent why companies provide this information and, even more so, how differences in their levels of disclosure should be interpreted. Drawing on concepts of incrementalism and focusing on oil companies that operate in regions which are characterised by severe human rights abuses, this chapter examines differences in the nature of CSD reporting among these companies with the CSD of companies which do not operate in these areas. In analysing this disclosure data, it is noted that companies with extensive operations in politically sensitive areas are more likely to focus on wider issues such as environmental and broader community concerns, which tend to impose relatively few concrete commitments and restrictions on these companies. By contrast, companies operating in less-sensitive areas emphasise issues relating employee welfare, which tend to carry more tangible obligations. These observations follow a ‘restrictive adaption’ pattern of CSD whereby companies adapt CSR ends to available means in an incrementalist fashion, making environmental and social reporting a tool for the reinforcement of inertia.

Keywords: oil industry, human rights, corporate social responsibility, corporate social accounting

JEL Classification: L95, M14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Beck, Matthias and Toms, Steve, Accounting Disclosure and Human Rights in the Oil Industry (2009). ACCOUNTING DISCLOSURE AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE OIL INDUSTRY, pp.194-215, C. Mallin, ed., Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1735986 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1735986
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Why does the oil industry face specifi c CSR challenges? 2. What is the malign view of CSD? 3. What is 'malign incrementalism
Why is legitimacy theory diffi cult to test?
How can companies create diversions from ethical challenges?
Under which circumstances would CSD be a good measure of a company's ethical engagement? NOTES
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
339
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,069
RANK
202,849
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies