Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governing Cooperation Hazards of Outsourced Municipal Low Contractibility Transactions: An Exploratory Configuration Approach

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Jan 2011 Last revised: 12 Jan 2011

Tobias Johansson

Örebro University - School of Business

Sven Siverbo

Karlstad Business School

Date Written: January 10, 2011

Abstract

Increasingly, public sector organizations (PSOs) outsource the delivering of important welfare services. This gives rise to important questions of how PSOs can control their suppliers. The purpose of this paper is to show how PSOs manage cooperation hazards of low contractibility transactions, i.e., activities expected to be difficult to govern. The paper applies a taxonomic configuration approach which means we apply a holistic view on the governance of suppliers and search for internally congruent governance packages that also are adapted to the context of the transactions. We find indications of the importance of internal congruence in governance packages in order to effectively deal with cooperation hazards. We also notice that the intensity in and types of controls in inter-organizational relationships are affected by the amount of cooperation hazards. A conflict between a relational and a bureaucracy-based governance package in one of the configurations is argued to be the main driver behind lower expectations about positive behaviour from suppliers.

Keywords: Inter-Organizational Relationships, Management Control, Outsourcing, Configurations, Taxonomies, Cluster Analysis, Transaction Cost Economics, Public Sector

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Johansson, Tobias and Siverbo, Sven, Governing Cooperation Hazards of Outsourced Municipal Low Contractibility Transactions: An Exploratory Configuration Approach (January 10, 2011). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1737803
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
737
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies