Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internet Disclosure by Nonprofit Organizations: Empirical Evidence of Nongovernmental Organizations for Development in Spain

Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Vol. 40, No. 1, pp. 57-78, 2011

Posted: 14 Jan 2011

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: January 10, 2011

Abstract

This article examines the relevance of technology, and particularly the Internet, for the improvement of accountability and transparency in nonprofit organizations. The novelty of our work regarding the previous empirical evidence resides in the fact that we have taken into account the means through which these organizations diffuse voluntary information. In this article, we have proposed a model of information disclosure for the Web sites of Spanish nongovernmental organizations for development (NGODs) that can serve as a guide for improving their informative transparency and their accountability. The empirical evidence obtained reveals that Spanish NGOD Web sites are primarily ornamental and that they should evolve toward an environment more informational and relational that allows the stakeholders to access relevant information ranging from the work being done and the use of the dispersed funds to the form in which the organization is governed. Our results have also confirmed that the disclosure levels are related to the amount of future donations received by the organization.

Keywords: Internet Disclosure, Transparency in Nonprofits, Accountability, NGODs, Spain

JEL Classification: M4, L31

Suggested Citation:

Gandía, Juan L., Internet Disclosure by Nonprofit Organizations: Empirical Evidence of Nongovernmental Organizations for Development in Spain (January 10, 2011). Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Vol. 40, No. 1, pp. 57-78, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1739738
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies