Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines for Public and Third Sector Organizations

Public Management Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2010

19 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2011

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

John Dumay

Macquarie University; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Federica Farneti

The University of Sydney - Discipline of Accounting

Date Written: July 20, 2010

Abstract

This article provides a critique of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines, sustainability reporting (SR) guidelines and also examines their applicability to public and third sector organizations. The article finds that these guidelines promote a ‘managerialist’ approach to sustainability rather than an ecological and eco-justice informed approach, potentially causing them to fall into an evaluatory trap. This means that they do not contribute to sustainability. Since public and third sector organizations have yet to take up SR with the same fervour as the private sector, the opportunity exists to learn from the critique of the use of the GRI reports in practice. As such this article examines the implications of this finding for public and third sector organizations. A conclusion is that there is an opportunity for the GRI to develop guidelines further in line with existing practice to increase their relevance and utility.

Keywords: Critique, GRI, Public Sector, SR Guidelines, Sustainability Reporting, Third Sector

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, James and Dumay, John and Farneti, Federica, GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines for Public and Third Sector Organizations (July 20, 2010). Public Management Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1742167
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Accountability
AccountAbility. --(2008b) AA1000 Assurance Standard Posted: 2008
C A Adams
Internal Organisational Factors Influencing Corporate Social and Ethical Reporting: Beyond Current Theorising
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 15 , p. 223 - 50 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ball
Sustainability Accounting in UK Local Government: An Agenda for Research
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) , volume 18 , p. 3 - 346 Posted: 2002
A Ball , J Bebbington
Editorial: Accounting and Reporting for Sustainable Development in Public Service Organizations
Public Money & Management , volume 28 , p. 6 - 323 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
845
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,876
RANK
66,112
3 Citations
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Accountability, Strategy, and International Non-Governmental Organizations

By L. David Brown and Mark H. Moore

Theorising Accountability for NGO Advocacy

By Jeffrey Unerman and Brendan O'dwyer

Democratic Accountability: The Third Sector and All

By Robert E. Goodin

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies