Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Advancing Sustainable Management of Public and Not for Profit Organizations

Public Management Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 449-459, 2010

12 Pages Posted: 23 Jan 2011

James Guthrie

Macquarie University - Department of Accounting and Finance; University Of Bologna - Department of Management; Macquarie University, Macquarie Business School

Amanda Ball

University of Canterbury - Department of Accountancy

Federica Farneti

University of Bologna - School of Economics, Management, and Statistics

Date Written: July 20, 2010

Abstract

The article is located in the social and environmental accounting research (SEAR) literature. A considerable body of work in the SEAR literature investigates the accounting and management practices and motives of businesses that report on their social, environmental or sustainability impacts. The potential value that researchers might derive in turning their attention to public services, social, environmental or sustainability practices, however, has been largely overlooked. The main objective of the article is to review relevant literature and ideas concerning accounting and accountability as key processes in advancing sustainability practices. The article also reviews the contributions to this PMR Special Issue and draws several conclusions.

Keywords: not for profit, public sector, public services, social and environmental accounting, sustainability management

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49 

Suggested Citation:

Guthrie, James and Ball, Amanda and Farneti, Federica, Advancing Sustainable Management of Public and Not for Profit Organizations (July 20, 2010). Public Management Review, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 449-459, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1743841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
C Adams , P Mcnicholas , A Zutshi
Making a Difference: Journeying with an Organisation towards Social and Environmental Accountability
Third Australasian CSEAR Conference Posted: 2005-03-30
A Ball
Sustainability Accounting in UK Local Government: An Agenda for Research
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2002
Guthrie
Crossref
Downloaded By
A Sustainability Accounting Project for the UK Local Government Sector? Testing the Social Theory Mapping Process and Locating a Frame of Reference
Environmental Accounting and Change in UK Local Government. Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 15 , p. 3 - 346 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
219
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,642
RANK
318,636
2 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Sustainability Reporting by Australian Public Sector Organisations: Why They Report

By Federica Farneti and James Guthrie

Social and Environmental Reporting: The Australian Food and Beverage Industry

By Suresh Cuganesan, Leanne Ward, ...

Sustainability Reporting in Australian Public Sector Organisations: Why They Report

By Federica Farneti and James Guthrie

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies