Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 2 Feb 2011 Last revised: 30 Jan 2012

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Nolan Kido

University of Hawaii at Manoa - Shidler College of Business

Joseph Weber

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: January 29, 2011

Abstract

This paper investigates whether gubernatorial elections affect state governments’ accounting choices. We identify two accounts, the compensated absence liability account and the unfunded pension liability account, which provide incumbent gubernatorial candidates with flexibility for manipulation. We find that in an election year, the liability associated with compensated absences and unfunded pension liabilities are both systematically lower. We also find that the variation in these employment related liabilities is correlated with proxies for the incumbent’s incentives and ability to manipulate their accounting reports. Jointly these results suggest that state governments manipulate accounting numbers to present a healthier financial picture in an election year.

Suggested Citation:

Petacchi, Reining and Kido, Nolan Y. and Weber, Joseph Peter, The Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities (January 29, 2011). Journal of Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1753198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1753198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Alesina , R Perotti , J Tavares
The Political Economy of Fiscal Adjustments
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , volume 1 , p. 197 - 248 Posted: 1998
Crossref
W R Baber
Toward Understanding the Role of Auditing in the Public Sector
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , p. 213 - 227 Posted: 1983
Crossref
W R Baber , P Sen
The Role of Generally Accepted Reporting Methods in the Public Sector: An Empirical Test
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 3 , p. 91 - 106 Posted: 1984
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore
Consequences of GAAP Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from Municipal Debt Issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 565 - 591 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
603
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,472
RANK
102,586
6 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Discussion of the Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

By Laurence Van Lent

Do governments hide resources from unions? The influence of public sector unions on reported discretionary fund balance ratios

By Angela K. Gore, Yuan Ji, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies