Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of the Governmental Accounting Reform Implementation in Greek Public Hospitals: Testing the Institutional Framework

34th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, April 2011

35 Pages Posted: 13 Feb 2011 Last revised: 15 Feb 2011

Filippos Stamatiadis

Technological Educational Institute (TEI) of Athens

Nikolaos Eriotis

National and Kapodistrian University of Athens

Date Written: February 12, 2011

Abstract

Purpose – In an attempt to promote efficiency, effectiveness and economy in health service production, the Greek government imposed in 2003 an accrual basis financial and cost accounting system in all public hospitals of the National Health System (NHS).

The purpose of this study is not to investigate thoroughly the accounting reform implementation and adoption in specific organizations, but rather to obtain an overall idea of the reform adoption process in Greek public hospitals by identifying major areas of non-compliance with the mandatory legislative accounting framework and various organisational contingencies that influence the level of reform adoption within a broad institutional framework.

Design/methodology/approach – Our analysis is based on the results of an empirical survey that took place during 2009. For the purposes of this survey, a compliance index is constructed and applied on a sample of 94 Greek public hospitals using a structured questionnaire and semi-structured interviews with six public hospital Financial and Accounting executives.

Findings – The empirical evidence reveals that the level of accrual basis financial and especially cost accounting adoption in Greek public hospitals is realized only to a limited extent. In particular, results show that the relationship between the institutional isomorphic pressures and accounting reform implementation process is restricted by organizational capability factors (i.e., the quality of existing Information Technology systems, the education level of finance and accounting staff, the extent of reform related training, and the professional support of consultants).

Research limitations/implications – Although this study takes into consideration the work of previous researchers in the health care area, it acknowledges that empirical research on the subject in the Greek environment is limited. Therefore this study should be viewed as an initial step to address this limitation.

Originality/value – This study draws on the information systems change, management accounting innovation, and public sector reform literatures to contribute to the current knowledge in public sector accounting by examining a number of factors that are expected to influence the implementation and adoption process of accrual and cost accounting practises in the Greek public healthcare sector within a broad institutional framework.

Contribution - The main contribution of this study is the empirical evidence it provides on the approaches and processes used by the Government of Greece to implement accrual accounting systems and the role certain human, organizational and situational factors played in such implementations.

Keywords: Accrual Accounting, Public Sector Accounting, Compliance Index, Public Hospitals, Isomorphism

JEL Classification: H8, H83

Suggested Citation:

Stamatiadis, Filippos and Eriotis, Nikolaos, Evolution of the Governmental Accounting Reform Implementation in Greek Public Hospitals: Testing the Institutional Framework (February 12, 2011). 34th Annual Congress of the European Accounting Association, April 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1760423
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
J Burns , R W Scapens
Conceptualizing management accounting change: an institutional framework
Management Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 2000
Crossref
I V Canby , J
Applying activity-based costing to healthcare settings
Healthcare Financial Management , volume 49 , issue 2 , p. 50 - 55 Posted: 1995
F E Cardinaels , G Roodhooft , Van Herck
Drivers of cost system development in hospitals: results of a survey
Health Policy , volume 69 , p. 239 - 252 Posted: 2004
Crossref
T Carlin , J Guthrie
Victoria's Accrual output based budgeting system -delivering as promised? Some empirical evidence
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 267 - 4424 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
953
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,467
RANK
55,924
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Learning from International Public Management Reform Experience for Management Control Systems

By Linda M. English and James Guthrie

Investigating the Governmental Accounting Reform of Greek National Health System (ESY): Some Preliminary Evidence

By Filippos Stamatiadis

Management Accounting Innovations in Local Governments. Evidences from Italian and Greek Municipalities

By Emanuele Padovani, Rebecca Levy Orelli, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies