Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Survey of the Effects of Direct Financial Costs Involunteering

Third Sector Review, Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 105-124, 2010

Posted: 15 Feb 2011

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Letisha Tan

Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Date Written: February 14, 2010

Abstract

Statistics New Zealand (2007) stated that more than a quarter of New Zealanders donated over 270 million hours of unpaid labour to third sector organisations in 2004. It is also estimated that 41 percent of the Australian population volunteered in 2005 (Lyons 2006). Volunteering is, however, not without costs. Often volunteers purchase goods or services to be used in organisations for which they volunteer and frequently they incur travelling expenses related to their volunteering role. Anecdotal evidence suggests that volunteers are not regularly reimbursed for these expenses and, even when they are, reimbursement does not cover the full costs incurred.

This paper reports on one aspect of a survey of New Zealand volunteers undertaken in 2007 to develop a broad understanding of active volunteers’ expenses and organisational reimbursement patterns. In this paper, the impact of out-of-pocket expenses on volunteering is analysed, the differences between rural and urban volunteers’ expenses highlighted, and the correlation between volunteers’ incomes and their expenses is assessed. While un-reimbursed costs are unlikely to stop committed volunteers donating their time, restricted budgets mean volunteers may change their availability and the tasks they undertake, potentially negatively impacting services their organisations provide. These findings are a reminder that third sector organisations should design reimbursement processes to support, rather than restrict, ‘priceless’ volunteers.

Keywords: Volunteers' expenses; nonprofit expenses

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Tan, Letisha, A Survey of the Effects of Direct Financial Costs Involunteering (February 14, 2010). Third Sector Review, Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 105-124, 2010, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1761672
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

English & Commonwealth Law eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies