Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Changing Political Economy of Pension Fund Accounting Regulation: A Comparative Study of Four Anglo-American Countries

58 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2011

Paul J. M. Klumpes

Aalborg University Business School

Date Written: January 6, 2011

Abstract

This paper examines the inter-relationships between changes the political economy of pensions law and changes in pension accounting regulation in four Anglo-American countries. A four fold property rights framework is developed which identifies the common inequities in the ownership of pension deficits and surpluses. Deficiencies are identified relating to various issues concerning the recognition, measurement and disclosure of pension fund surpluses or deficits. These aspects in include inequality in pension provision, the capture of pension regulation through delegation to narrow professional bodies, the corporatisation of pension accounting language and discourse, and the general opaqueness and dimunition of public pension regulations. Until the 1970s, pensions were generally seen as being a paternalistic social security and pension funds were relatively unregulated. However the social, economic-consequences of ageing populations on the financing of public pensions has brought about a new emphasis on professionally-developed accounting standards as a primary means of regulating the accountability of pension funds. This paper analyses how the changing political economy of pensions differentially affected: (i) the measurement of pension liabilities; (ii) the development of pension fund accounting standards; and (iii) how liabilities to pension fund members are measured and recognised.

Keywords: Pension Funds, Regulation

JEL Classification: G23, M40

Suggested Citation:

Klumpes, Paul J.M., The Changing Political Economy of Pension Fund Accounting Regulation: A Comparative Study of Four Anglo-American Countries (January 6, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1763812 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1763812
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
Accounting Standards Board
Financial Reporting Standard , volume 17 Posted: 2000
N Barr
International trends in pension provision
Accounting & Business Research , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 211 - 225 Posted: 2009
Crossref
R Bennett , H And , Gabriel
Corporate reputation, trait covariation and the averaging principle -the case of the UK pensions mis-selling scandal
European Journal of Marketing , volume 35 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 387 - 413 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Berghman
Ageing and Social Security Financing: EISS: Tilburg Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,049
RANK
364,553
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies