Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Pragmatic Evaluation of Fiscal and Budget Management System in Nigeria

The University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, April-June 2009

22 Pages Posted: 17 Mar 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Jugu Yohanna G.

University of Jos

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Budget and fiscal management system is one of the key clements that have a determinative impact on the quality of development process of a nation. This critical role or the system must have informed the painstaking efforts of the present administration in Nigeria to find ways to rebrand the system, and strengthen its capacity to activate the economy to provide for the developmental needs of the citizenry. This study is aimed at contributing to this governmental initiative. The general objective is to provide a critical overview and empirical report of the macro economic framework upon which the state and national budgets and fiscal management processes are formulated so as to identity areas of weaknesses which mav require some rebranding. The data for the study were collected from secondary sources such as government reports and other documents pertaining to national development plans and budgeting process The study also derived its primary data from questionnaire and interviews conducted with government officials with structured and unstructured questions on fiscal and budget matters. On the whole, the study reveals that rebranding the budget system must be targeted at four major problem areas namely the country's fiscal dependence on oil revenue and its volatility, the external debt overhang, the huge budget deficits and uncontrolled public spending. Reform initiatives arc also required on the conduct of the budget process itself especially in the areas of capacity building for budget personnel, computerization of budget inputs and processes as well as inter-institutional linkages and collaboration. It is also revealed that the inability of fiscal and budgetary system in Nigeria to achieve objectives is as a result of deficient techniques, poor accountability and transparency in the system. Finally, the study recommended the establishment of federal stabilization fund for oil windfall, aggressive pursuit of debt conversion programme and transparent administration of the budget and fiscal system.

Keywords: budget, fiscal management

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu and Jugu, Yohanna Gyang, A Pragmatic Evaluation of Fiscal and Budget Management System in Nigeria (2009). The University Advanced Research Journal, No. 1, April-June 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1785492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
T Adeboye
A General Survey of the Economy in Nigeria since the Independence Posted: 1989
M Kayode , Y B Usman
A A Ani
Budget of Transition; The 1998 Budget Press Briefing of the Honourable Minister of Finance Posted: 1998
A A Ani
Budget of Economic Growth and Development'. Budget Press briefing of the Honourable Minister of Finance Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
228
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,909
RANK
306,268
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies