Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Public Sector Cost Accounting Systems - Case Finnish Defence Forces

Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, Vol. 7, No 2, pp. 97-110, 2011

14 Pages Posted: 6 Apr 2011

Timo Hyvonen

Tampere University; Tampere University - School of Business Administration

Janne Jarvinen

University of Oulu

Salme Näsi

University of Tampere

Jukka Pellinen

University of Jyväskylä

Tapani Rahko

Tampere University

Date Written: April 1, 2011

Abstract

This paper addresses the relationship between “new” and the “old” public performance management; the dialogue between imported idealistic designs and the inherently stable existing (performance) management systems (Carmona & Grönlund, 2003; Hyvönen, Järvinen, Pellinen, & Rahko, 2009; Scapens & Ter Bogt, 2009). We see the co-existence of imported and traditional, both idealistic and realistic models of performance management as problematic. Such performance management models are based on different institutional logics that are the taken-for-granted rules guiding behavior of field-level actors, and related practices that predominate in an organizational field. These logics help to explain connections that create a sense of common purpose and unity within an organizational field (Scott, 2001; Kitchener, 2002). The purpose of this paper is to analyze and illustrate how institutional pressures for management accounting change are formed. Most studies on change and stability of management accounting pay little attention on how institutional pressures for accounting change are formed, especially on the political field level. Our study demonstrates how various actors at the political field level participate in creating institutional pressures in diverse and sometimes contradictory ways. Drawing on archival data and 20 interviews with public officials, we seek to illustrate how different organizational field-level actors’ views on implementing cost accounting differ, and how these views have influenced the outcome of cost accounting development in the Finnish Defence Forces. Our results suggest that contradictory institutional logics exist in relation with Finnish central government management-by-results, performance management and cost accounting systems. A value-for-money ideology in the armed forces sector (see e.g., Grönlund & Catasus, 2005) at times seems to challenge and even contradict the “legalistic” tradition of developing cost accounting that conforms to budgetary laws and statues. Similarly, the New Public Management based performance prism model (Fryer, Antony, & Ogden, 2009; Neely, Adams, & Crowe, 2001), when implemented at a local level, seems to conflict with notions common in accounting literature, according to which management accounting systems should be aligned with organizations’ strategy and structure (see e.g., Abernethy, Lillis, Brownell, & Carter, 2001).

Keywords: management-by-results, performance management, cost accounting, military

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Hyvonen, Timo and Jarvinen, Janne and Näsi, Salme and Pellinen, Jukka and Rahko, Tapani, Developing Public Sector Cost Accounting Systems - Case Finnish Defence Forces (April 1, 2011). Journal of Modern Accounting and Auditing, Vol. 7, No 2, pp. 97-110, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1800643
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M Abernethy , A Lillis , P Brownell , P Carter
Product diversity and costing system design choice: Field study evidence
Management Accounting Research , volume 12 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 279 Posted: 2001
Crossref
S Ansari , K J Euske
Rational, rationalizing and reifying uses of accounting data in organizations. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 12 , p. 549 - 570 Posted: 1987
Crossref
S R Barley , P S Tolbert
Institutionalization and structuration: Studying the links between institutions and actions
Organization Studies , issue 18 , p. 93 - 117 Posted: 1997
Crossref
J Burns , R Scapens
Conceptualising management accounting change: An institutional framework
Management Accounting Research , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 25 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
542
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,758
RANK
117,520
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies