Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Needs? Formula Funding in the UK School Sector

Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0809

33 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2011

Gloria Agyemang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 1, 2008

Abstract

Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to analyse whether the development of a needs-based funding formula for resource allocation incorporates the needs of funders or the needs of the service providers.

Methodology: The paper analyses interview data and documentary evidence gathered from a UK Local Education Authority about the creation of a “needs-based” formula for sharing resources to schools. It employs and extends a framework developed by Levačić and Ross (1999) to evaluate needs-based formula funding.

Findings: Although formula funding is purported to be a more objective method of resource allocation, the paper finds that as with other resource allocation methods the power relations between the users and the providers of funds impact on the extent to which service provider needs are incorporated into the funding formula. The main benefit of a funding formula lies in the debates that surround its creation. This allows the formula to be accepted though it may not necessarily fund service provider needs.

Research limitations: This work considered only the funding of schools. Further work is needed to investigate formula funding for other public services.

Research type: Case study.

Practical Implications: Debates between funders and service providers should be encouraged by policy makers to ensure that outcomes of resource allocation are acceptable to users.

Keywords: Needs based, formula funding, public sector, resource allocation, service provider needs, service provider wants, education funding

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Agyemang, Gloria, Accounting for Needs? Formula Funding in the UK School Sector (December 1, 2008). Royal Holloway, University of London, School of Management Working Paper No. 0809, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802487 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1802487
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing Qualitative Field Research in Management Accounting: Positioning Data to Contribute to Theory. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 31 , issue 8 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
D Angulin , R Scapens
Transparency, Accounting Knowledge and Perceived Fairness in UK Universities' Resource Allocation: Results from A survey of Accounting and Finance
British Accounting Review , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 42 Posted: 2000
Crossref
G W Astley , P Sachdeva
Structural Sources of Intraorganizational Power: A Theoretical Synthesis
Academy of Management Review , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 104 - 113 Posted: 1984
Crossref
A Berry , D Otley
Cased Based Research in Accounting
The Real Life Guide to Accounting Research: A Behind the Scenes View of Using Qualitative Research Methods Posted: 2004
Load more
1 Citations
June Cao , Ari Kristanto , ZHANZHONG GU
Evolution of Research Streams and Future Research Directions in Accounting Education: Quantitative Systematic Literature Review
Issues in Accounting Education 2024; https://doi.org/10.2308/ISSUES-2023-094 · 61 Pages · Posted: 15 Apr 2024 · Last revised: 2 Aug 2024 · Downloads: 264
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,227
RANK
672,864
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies