Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bureaucracy and Accountancy Effectiveness of Tertiary Institutions' Accountants in Cross River State

Journal of the Faculty of Management and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 2, July 2005

6 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 4, 2011

Abstract

The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between bureaucracy and effectiveness of accountants in tertiary institutions of Cross River State. To achieve this objective, two hypotheses were formulated and tested. Two sets of questionnaire, Bureaucracy questionnaire (BO) and accountants' effectiveness questionnaire (AAEO) were developed, validated, and administered to one hundred senior accounting officers including the Bursars, and three hundred other staff in the Accounts/Bursary Departments of these institutions respectively, which were drawn using stratified random sampling method for one hundred accounting departments/units of the tertiary institutions in the state. The data obtained was analyzed using contingency chi-square (X2) and Pearson product moment correlation analysis at .05 level of significance. The major results showed that there is a significant relationship between Bureaucracy and Accountants' effectiveness in accountancy. But no significant relationship exists between bureaucracy and accountants' overall effectiveness. Also, the accountant's style of performing his jot: is not contingent upon his perceived level of bureaucratic control. Some recommendations were made.

Keywords: Bureaucrazy, Accountancy Effectiveness, Tertiary, Institutions, Cross River State

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Bureaucracy and Accountancy Effectiveness of Tertiary Institutions' Accountants in Cross River State (April 4, 2011). Journal of the Faculty of Management and Social Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 2, July 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802366
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
D Centre , J M Blackbourn
Posted: 1992
Monopolistic Educational Bureaucracy (MEB
Crossref
the Dis-Ease Destroying Public Education. Ericdigest , volume 33 , issue 66 , p. 571 - 599
Crossref
S B Dale
Managing People at work: Reading in Personnel
Bureaucracy, Bureaucratization and Debureaucratization Posted: 1985
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,086
RANK
605,632
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies