Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting Controlling and Accounting for Social Responsibility Expenditure: A Trend Analysis of Impending Issues

Knowledge Builders, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 138, September 2006

13 Pages Posted: 7 Apr 2011

Emmanuel Ikechukwu Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

There are 2 versions of this paper

Abstract

Budgeting controlling and accounting are management functions which are aimed at effective operations of business activities so as to achieve good profits and attain overall management goal for the organization. Social responsibility expenditure provides a basis for harmonious working relationships between the corporate organization and their host communities, as it provides for community development and environment control. Social responsibility accounting at present is an undeveloped subject in Nigeria. Serious obstacles impede its development, the main obstacle being the definition of social objectives which would be relevant to defining the nature and scope of social responsibility accounting and the apparent inability at this stage in time to develop acceptable measurement of performance by corporate bodies. Even the three approaches highlighted in accounting literature for corporate social responsibility expenditure could not resolve in concrete terms this problem of having an acceptable measurement technique for the expenditure. However, adequate disclosure of social responsibility expenditure which are geared towards the satisfaction of the host communities' expectations are not fully made in the financial statements because of the existing provisions in CAMA 1990. Thus we recommend that the provisions of part III schedule 5 of CAMA be amended so as to take cognizance of social responsibilities expenditure incurred by organizations towards enhancing the standard of living of the host communities. We demand also that the Nigerian Accounting Standards Board should formulate all accounting standard which will border on Accounting for social responsibility expenditure so as to encourage information disclosure of such expenditure ill the financial statement.

Keywords: budgeting,controlling,accounting,responsibility expenditure

Suggested Citation:

Okoye, Emmanuel Ikechukwu, Budgeting Controlling and Accounting for Social Responsibility Expenditure: A Trend Analysis of Impending Issues. Knowledge Builders, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 138, September 2006, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1802341
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
333
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,908
RANK
206,880
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies