Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Control for Change: A Study of Management Control Initiatives in Health Care

Studies in business administration Series B, Umeå: Umeå University, 1998

322 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2011

Tomas Blomquist

Umea University

Johann Packendorff

Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) - Department of Industrial Economics and Management (INDEK)

Date Written: 1998

Abstract

Since the end of the 1980’s, Swedish county council managers has been preoccupied with planning and implementing organisational change in order to alleviate the financial problems and to create more efficient production systems. Many of these efforts to change have implied changing the systems for management accounting and control, changes that have been inspired both by market-oriented ideologies and by the governance principles of large corporations in the private sector. Literature on management accounting and control indicates, however, that management is unintentionally contributing to the creation of organisational inertia and conservatism. This contradiction is formulated as a change dilemma; ”How can managerial principles that make organizations subject to bureaucratization and inertia be used as important strategies for organizational change?” The purpose of the study is thus to analyze the use of management control systems as organizational change strategies in health care, employing a change perspective on management control.

When used as a change strategy, management accounting and control becomes manifest as management control initiatives. Actors handle these control inititatives by organising themselves around the issue at hand. This organising process ends or fades away when there are no need for further attention to the control initiative.

Empirical studies were made in the councils of Västerbotten, Sörmland and Uppsala counties. Management control initiatives investigated were performance-related pay, quality improvement work, systematic planning procedures, provider/purchaser-models, downsizing projects and profit center systems.

The systems for management accounting and control appeared to structure health care organisations in terms of spatial structuring, temporal structuring and actor categorization. The management control initiatives introduced were structured as extraordinary organising processes delimited in terms of space, time and involved actors. Actors in the administrative norm system participated with the intention to change the organisation, while those in the medical norm system aimed at just handling the initiative.

Management control initiatives can therefore be seen as passing opportunities to change, passing in the sense that the organising processes are temporary by nature, opportunities in the sense that temporary re-coupling can be used to achieve long-term change. One such opportunity is the formulation of control initiatives; the possibility of using simple and standardized change strategies can be useful, but only if they are also linked to the medical norm system. A second opportunity is the temporary organising processes; if the project form of organising change can also be conveyed to the medical norm system, management control initiatives could result in short, intense courses of events that actually change things. The third opportunity is the recurrent, cyclical properties of management accounting and control systems, enabling recurrent activities around the same themes, thereby keeping them alive.

Note: Downloadable pdf is in Swedish.

Keywords: Management accounting and control, organisational change, management control initiatives, health care, organising processes, projectification, space, time, actor categories

Suggested Citation:

Blomquist, Tomas and Packendorff, Johann, Management Control for Change: A Study of Management Control Initiatives in Health Care (1998). Studies in business administration Series B, Umeå: Umeå University, 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1804162
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
314 References
A Alban , T Christiansen
The Nordic Lights: New Initiatives in Health Care Systems Posted: 1995
M Alvesson , K Sköldberg
Tolkning och reflektion: Vetenskapsfilosofi och kvalitativ metod Posted: 1994
M Alvesson , H Willmott
Making Sense of Management: A Critical Introduction Posted: 1996
A Anell , P Svarvar
Ekonomiska styrformer i hälso-och sjukvår-den: utvecklingslinjer och lärdomar för framtiden". I P. Carlsson (red.), Den planerade marknaden: Om nya styrformer i hälso-och sjukvården
Socialstyrelsen följer upp och utvärderar Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,935
RANK
418,383
314 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies