Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Business, Accountability, and Performance Reporting

Humanomics, Forthcoming

25 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2011

Mawdudur Rahman

Suffolk University - Sawyer School of Management

Mostaq M. Hussain

UNBSJ

Date Written: March 14, 2011

Abstract

Social business (SB) is relatively a new form of business. It aims to provide an access to the poor and the under-privileged to the economic opportunities by complementing the objectives of profit making business and non-profit agencies. SB distinguishes itself by its vision, mission, and operating strategies from other forms of organization. It includes businesses that have all the gains of a business enterprise, as it has its goal benefiting the poor.

In SB paradigm wealth creation and consumption is a partnership. The poor people are not looked upon as a burden of the society; with opportunities given they may become partners in the economic cycle of wealth creation. It will bring benefits to all. In order to sustain the wealth creation and consumption partnership, the need for moderation of the social ideology becomes a pertinent social imperative.

The issue of accountability in social business needs to be addressed from three different perspectives: 1) social goals, 2) business motivation, and 3) accounting. Accountability and performance measurements for social business should be based on multiple disciplines, include financial and non-financial measures. It should include financial accounting reporting requirements for business entities and credible effectiveness measures of social enterprises.

In this paper we have discussed fourteen measurement techniques and suggested a modified Balanced Scorecard (BSC) for Social business. The paper includes guidelines for implementing the proposed BSC, performance measurements and reporting techniques for social business.

Suggested Citation:

Rahman, Mawdudur and Hussain, Mostaq M., Social Business, Accountability, and Performance Reporting (March 14, 2011). Humanomics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1806226
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Adam Arvidsson
The ethical economy: Towards a post-capitalist theory of value. Capital & Class
Crossref
Spring2009
, volume 97
Aspalter
Christian1 The East Asian welfare model
International Journal of Social Welfare , volume 15 , p. 290 - 301 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Steffen ; Böhm , Chris Land
No measure for culture? Value in the new economy. Capital & Class; Spring2009 , volume 97 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
349
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,864
RANK
196,412
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies