Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Sustainability, Accounting and Society

33 Pages Posted: 3 May 2011 Last revised: 13 Nov 2013

Paul J. M. Klumpes

Aalborg University Business School

Martin McKee

London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine

Rifat A. Atun

Imperial College London

Liyan Tang

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: August 7, 2013

Abstract

This paper develops the concept of generational imbalance within a broader framework of financial sustainability in the public sector, by evaluating the inter-generational financial dimensions and management performance and control implications of long-term societal demographic trends. We argue that a financial sustainability framework identifies material generational accounting imbalances that will empower stakeholders to better evaluate the currently hidden inequities and resource allocation problems afflicting organizations whose services, funding and resource allocations are particularly sensitive to the effects of long-term societal demographic shifts. Our analysis focuses on reporting practices of two UK health-care provider trusts, developing statements of financial sustainability and comparing performance measures based on the existing accrual measurement basis with our proposed framework. We propose an alternative conceptual framework to the currently adopted resource accounting model in order to more equitably evaluate the long term financial sustainability of public sector entities subject to financial sustainability constraints in their quality of service delivery; and identify an agenda for research which can usefully further apply the proposed framework to other contexts.

Keywords: Financial sustainability, health care trust, under funding practices

JEL Classification: M41, L31, J18, H55

Suggested Citation:

Klumpes, Paul J.M. and McKee, Martin and Atun, Rifat A. and Tang, Liyan, Financial Sustainability, Accounting and Society (August 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1825864 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1825864
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
S Appleby
Spending on Health Care in the Next 50 Years: Why Think Long Term? Kings Fund Posted: 2013
P J Arnold
Accounting and the state: Consequences of merger and acquisition accounting in the U.S. hospital industry. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 16 , p. 121 - 140 Posted: 1991
Crossref
P J Arnold , L S Oakes
Accounting as discursive construction: The relationship between statement of financial accounting standards no. 106 and the dismantling of retiree health benefits. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 23 , p. 129 - 153 Posted: 1998
Crossref
K J Arrow
Insurance, Risk and Resource Allocation
Essays in the Theory of Risk Bearing Posted: 1971
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
528
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,123
RANK
121,421
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Generational Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

From Deficit Delusion to the Fiscal Balance Rule: Looking for an Economically Meaningful Way to Assess Fiscal Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

From Deficit Delusion to the Fiscal Balance Rule: Looking for an Economically Meaningful Way to Assess Fiscal Policy

By Laurence J. Kotlikoff

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies