Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Agency Growth Between Autonomy and Accountability: The European Police Office as a ‘Living Institution’

Journal of European Public Policy, 2011

Posted: 23 May 2011

Madalina Busuioc

University of Amsterdam - Faculty of Law, Amsterdam Centre for European Law and Governance; University of Amsterdam - Amsterdam Centre for European Law and Governance

Deirdre Curtin

European University Institute - Department of Law (LAW); affiliation not provided to SSRN

Martijn L. P. Groenleer

Tilburg University, Tilburg Law School, Department of Law and Governance, Tilburg Center for Regional Law and Governance

Date Written: May 9, 2011

Abstract

Autonomy and accountability of public agencies are two sides of the same coin, yet often they are examined separately and at only one point in time. This contribution therefore examines the interaction between accountability and autonomy over time. It does so in the context of a European Union agency, the European Police Office (Europol), the creation of which has been the subject of much contestation and discussion in terms of its possibility to wield autonomy and escape accountability. The contribution looks at de jure aspects of both autonomy and accountability, but moves beyond a strictly formal analysis and investigates actual practices. Drawing on extensive document analysis and 26 in-depth semi-structured interviews with key agency officials as well as members of the relevant accountability forums, the contribution shows tailored accountability arrangements that are acceptable to involved actors reinforce autonomy, but an inappropriate and contested accountability system has the opposite effect, stifling autonomous development, as seems to have been the case with regard to Europol.

Keywords: accountability, autonomy, European Union agencies, Europol, living institution

Suggested Citation:

Busuioc, Madalina and Busuioc, Madalina and Curtin, Deirdre M. and Curtin, Deirdre M. and Groenleer, Martijn L. P., Agency Growth Between Autonomy and Accountability: The European Police Office as a ‘Living Institution’ (May 9, 2011). Journal of European Public Policy, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1836316
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Public Law: EU eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies