Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Australia Inside/Out: The Corporate Governance System of the Australian Listed Market

Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 28, No. 3, December 2004

The University of Manchester Legal Research Paper Series No. Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 20 May 2011 Last revised: 5 Jul 2022

Alan J. Dignam

Queen Mary University of London - School of Law

Michael Galanis

University of Manchester - School of Law

Date Written: 2004

Abstract

This article concerns the classification of the corporate governance system of Australia’s listed market. Claims are often made that it is an outsider system of ownership and control, similar to that of the UK and the US. Through an examination of share ownership patterns, institutional investor activism, private rent extraction, the market for corporate control and blocks to information flow, this article argues that the corporate governance system of Australia’s listed market in fact has many of the characteristics associated with insider systems. The misclassification of the corporate governance system of Australia’s listed market has significant impacts for the general classification of insider and outsider systems, as it may be an example of an insider system converging to an outsider system. The misclassification also has significant impacts for the Australian reform agenda, as reforms based on the assumption that the Australian listed market has an outsider system of corporate governance may be inappropriate and damaging.

Keywords: corporate governance, law reform, listed companies, Australia, outsider system, insider system, share ownership patterns, shareholders, institutional investor activism, private rent extraction, market for corporate control, information flow

Suggested Citation:

Dignam, Alan J. and Galanis, Michael, Australia Inside/Out: The Corporate Governance System of the Australian Listed Market (2004). Melbourne Univeristy Law Review, Vol. 28, No. 3, December 2004, The University of Manchester Legal Research Paper Series No. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1839416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
79 References
La Rafael , Florencio Porta , Andrei Lopez-De-Silanes , Shleifer
Journal of Finance , volume 54 Posted: 1999
Ibid
' Tom O'lincoln , Wealth , Rick Kuhn , Tom O' Lincoln
Ownership and Power: The Ruling Class
Class and Class Conflict in Australia Posted: 1996
Stapledon Lamba
Load more
1 Citations
Alan J. Dignam , Peter B. Oh
Disregarding the <i>Salomon</i> Principle: An Empirical Analysis, 1855-2014
39 Oxford J. Legal Stud. 16 (2019), U. of Pittsburgh Legal Studies Research Paper No. 2019-04 · 37 Pages · Posted: 7 Mar 2019 · Downloads: 780
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
460
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,074
RANK
143,458
1 Citations
79 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies