Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Consequences of Tax Service Provider Choice in the Not-for-Profit Sector

55 Pages Posted: 23 May 2011 Last revised: 5 Oct 2013

Stevanie S. Neuman

University of Missouri at Columbia - School of Accountancy

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: August 1, 2013

Abstract

This study examines the determinants and consequences of tax service provider choice among not-for-profit (NFP) organizations. Understanding how clients choose among professional services firms for tax services is important both because of the economic significance of tax service revenues to public accounting firms and because of regulatory changes to the market for tax services following the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Because public accounting firms compete with law and consulting firms for tax clients, we examine whether factors that influence the organizational structure of professions – client proximity and knowledge availability – influence clients’ decisions to purchase tax services. Using data from the U.S. NFP sector where the decision to purchase tax services is observable for all organizations, we find that NFPs are less likely to retain their auditor for tax services as distance to the auditor and knowledge availability increase. We document that self-preparing NFPs are more likely to misreport executive compensation on their return, and we find no differences in misreporting between auditor and non-auditor paid preparers. Finally, we find that NFPs receive lower donor contributions after changing from paid preparers to self-preparing the Form 990.

Keywords: Tax Provider Choice, Non-Audit Services, Nonprofit Organizations, Donor Contributions

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M49

Suggested Citation:

Neuman, Stevanie S. and Omer, Thomas C. and Thompson, Anne, Determinants and Consequences of Tax Service Provider Choice in the Not-for-Profit Sector (August 1, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1845831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1845831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
101 References
D Aboody
Recognition versus disclosure in the oil and gas industry
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 34 , p. 21 - 32 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Ahmed , E Kilic , G Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Association of Healthcare Philanthropy
IRS reviewing community benefit of nonprofit hospitals. Dated October , volume 4 Posted: 2011
P Beck , T Frecka , I Solomon
A model of the market for MAS and audit services: Knowledge spillovers and auditor-auditee bonding
Journal of Accounting Literature , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 50 - 64 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
310
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,918
RANK
223,632
3 Citations
101 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

The Value of Verification in Debt Financing: Evidence from Private U.S. Firms

By Michael Minnis

Voluntary Audits and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Jeong-bon Kim, Dan A. Simunic, ...

Voluntary Audit and the Cost of Debt Capital for Privately Held Firms: Korean Evidence

By Dan A. Simunic, Jeong-bon Kim, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies