Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Whether Piety or Charity: Classification Issues in the Exemption of Churches and Charities from Property Taxation

RELIGION AND THE INDEPENDENT SECTOR IN AMERICA, pp. 135-165, C. Cherry and R. Sherill, eds., American Academy of Religion/Scholars Press, 1992

Emory Legal Studies Research Paper

36 Pages Posted: 7 Aug 2011

John Witte, Jr.

Emory University School of Law

Date Written: 1992

Abstract

The law governing tax exemption of church property illustrates the problem of classifying institutions and activities of the independent sector along religious lines. The “independent sector” is comprised of a variety of institutions, like families, schools, charities, churches, corporations, clubs, and others. Religion assumes a variety of forms and functions within these institutions, ranging from the incidental to the indispensable. The law, however, requires that sharp distinctions be drawn between “religious” and “non-religious” institutions and activities.

Such distinctions are required by state statutory law. Historically, two separate bodies of state law governed tax exemption of church property: (1) a body of common law, which accorded such exemptions to church properties based upon the religious uses to which they were devoted, and (2) a body of equity law, which accorded such exemptions to church properties based upon the charitable uses to which they were devoted. Currently, only one body of state statutory law governs such exemptions, yet exemptions remain based on either the religious uses or the charitable uses of a property. State officials are thus required to distinguish between piety and charity, religion and benevolence, to determine whether and on what basis a petitioner’s property can be exempted from taxation.

Such distinctions are also required by federal constitutional law. The Constitution of the United States permits government regulations of various non-religious institutions and activities, provided such regulations comply with generally applicable constitutional values. It permits governmental regulation of religious groups and activities, only if they comply with the specific mandates of the establishment and free exercise clauses of the first amendment. State tax exemptions for religious institutions and religious uses of property, therefore, require separate constitutional treatment.

The religion clauses of the first amendment, as currently interpreted, appear to offer conflicting directives on tax status of church property. The establishment clause has been interpreted to forbid government from imparting special benefits to religious groups. The free exercise clause has been interpreted to forbid government from imposing special burdens on religious groups. The free exercise clause has been interpreted to forbid government from imposing special burdens on religious groups. Neither the exemption nor the taxation of church property appears to satisfy the principles of both clauses. To exempt church property, while taxing that of other non-religious groups, appear to violate the “no special benefit” principle of the establishment clause. To tax church property, while taxing that of other non-religious groups, appears to violate the “no special burden” principle of the free exercise clause. To tax church property, while exempting that of other charitable groups, appears to violate the “no special burden” principle of the free exercise clause. In Walz v. Tax Commission (1970), the United States Supreme Court held that tax exemptions of church property, while neither proscribed by the establishment clause nor prescribed by the free exercise clause, are constitutionally permissible. In more recent cases involving federal income taxation and state sale and use taxation, however, the Court has called this precedent into serious question.

This Article retraces the history of tax exemption of church property in America and analyzes current patterns of tax exemption litigation and legislation in light of this history. Part I analyses the common law and equity law sources of tax exemption law, the challenge posed to these laws by early state constitutional provisions, and the rise of the modern theory and law of tax exemption of church property that emerged in response to these challenges. Part II analyzes briefly new trends in litigation over the tax exemption of church property, particularly in cases raised by new religious groups, which have sought to avail themselves of the same protections enjoyed by traditional religious groups. Part III poses an alternative to the current reforms of tax exemption law now being debated and analyzes this alternative provisionally in light of historical exemption laws and current constitutional interpretations.

Keywords: America, tax, exemption, law, church

Suggested Citation:

Witte, John, Whether Piety or Charity: Classification Issues in the Exemption of Churches and Charities from Property Taxation (1992). RELIGION AND THE INDEPENDENT SECTOR IN AMERICA, pp. 135-165, C. Cherry and R. Sherill, eds., American Academy of Religion/Scholars Press, 1992, Emory Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1851246
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
125 References
D Robertson
Zollmann's assertion, widely accepted as authoritative, is based upon the undocumented dicta of a few nineteenth century state supreme court cases which upheld church property exemptions against constitutional challenges , volume 342 , p. 346 - 351 Posted: 1880
All Saints Parish v. Inhabitants of Brooldine, 178 Mass , volume 404 , p. 411 - 416 Posted: 1901
E G See , Saunders
Crossref
Passim Pruitt
Charter of Massachusetts Bay (1629), reprinted in Thorpe, 3:1859. 16. The statutes often exempted property "under improvement
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,345
RANK
361,062
125 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emory University School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies