Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Continuous Disclosure Improve the Performance of State-Owned Enterprises?

24 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2011

Bronwyn E. Howell

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Management

Dave Heatley

New Zealand Productivity Commission

Talosaga Talosaga

New Zealand Institute for Study of Competition and Regulation Inc. (ISCR)

Date Written: May 31, 2011

Abstract

In January 2010 the New Zealand Government introduced a continuous disclosure regime for State-Owned Enterprise (SOEs) modelled on the regime applying to publicly-listed companies (PLCs). The government sees continuous disclosure increasing the transparency of SOEs, and that this will lead to improved financial performance by SOEs. We analyse the traditional rationales for continuous disclosure in PLCs, and find that it is not axiomatic that a continuous disclosure regime designed for PLCs overlaid onto an SOE will offer the same incentives for performance improvement. The differences in owner identity and governance relationships in SOEs and the absence of a market for the trading of shares substantially weaken the performance improvement effect of the disclosure instrument in SOEs. In the absence of share trading, it is not clear how a failure to disclose by SOE managers could be detected. Furthermore, under the New Zealand arrangements, the sanctions for SOE failure to disclose are very weak. This suggests that it is both easier for and more likely that SOE managers will withhold material information relative to their PLC counterparts. The hypothesis appears confirmed by a matched-pair comparison of disclosures by SOEs and private sector firms in the first year of the SOE continuous disclosure regime.

Keywords: Governance, Disclosure, Performance, State-Owned Enterprises

JEL Classification: M48, H11, H83

Suggested Citation:

Howell, Bronwyn E. and Heatley, Dave and Talosaga, Talosaga, Can Continuous Disclosure Improve the Performance of State-Owned Enterprises? (May 31, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1856287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1856287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
The SOE disclosure rules state that a transaction is considered material if the consideration payable or receivable is greater than
When counting the number of disclosures made by SOEs, periodic disclosures such as the announcement of annual reports have been excluded, since we are only considering continuous disclosures. For PLCs, only disclosures listed as price sensitive on NZX"s company research database are included. The time period in which disclosures are counted is 1
for both SOEs and PLCs Posted: 2010-01-21
These companies are: Freightways, Horizon Energy, Contact Energy, Trustpower, PGG Wrightson, Vector, Air New Zealand, NZ Oil and Gas and TeamTalk
Crossref
G Akerlof
The Market for Lemons: Qualitative Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,356
RANK
449,075
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies