Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differential Taxation of Nonprofits and the Commercialization of Nonprofit Revenues

Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, Vol. 17, No. 2, pp. 195-214, Spring 1998

21 Pages Posted: 3 Jun 2011

Burton A. Weisbrod

Northwestern University - Department of Economics

Joseph J. Cordes

George Washington Institute of Public Policy (GWIP)

Date Written: 1998

Abstract

The effects of the favorable tax treatment of nonprofit commercial activities are best understood in a framework that explicitly accounts for a number of interactions. these involve differential taxation of nonprofits and for-profits and of nonrprofits' "related" and "unrelated" activities; the preferences of nonprofit executives who may be adverse to commercial activity; donors whose giving may be sensitive to nonprofit organization commercial activity; and cost-complementarities between nonprofit core mission-related activities and their secondary money-raising efforts. Differential taxation encourages nonprofits to pursue otherwise avoided commercial ventures by providing excess financial returns that nonprofits can exploit because of their tax-exempt status. Data from the 1992 Statistics of Income (SOI) public use file of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form-990 returns indicate that the propensity of nonprofit organizations to undertake both tax-exempt and taxable activities depends on their primary mission-related output and size, the relative importance of government versus private contributions, and the size of the excess return created by differential taxation of nonprofit and for-profit business. Additional analyses of SOI data also show that organizations that engage in taxable commercial activities are likely to allocate joint costs in ways that reduce, and in most cases eliminate, their taxable income.

Suggested Citation:

Weisbrod, Burton A. and Cordes, Joseph J., Differential Taxation of Nonprofits and the Commercialization of Nonprofit Revenues (1998). Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, Vol. 17, No. 2, pp. 195-214, Spring 1998, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1856640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
Joseph J Cordes , M Steven , Sheffrin
Taxation and the Sectoral Allocation of Capital in the U.S
National Tax Journal , volume 36 , p. 419 - 433 Posted: 1981
Catherine Eckel , Richard Steinberg
Tax Policy and the Objectives of Nonprofit Organizations in a Mixed-Sector Duopoly Posted: 1994
Karen A Froelich , Terry W Knoepfle
Internal Revenue Service 1990 Data: Fact or Fiction
Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 25 , p. 40 - 52 Posted: 1996
Crossref
David 0 Gulley , E Rexford , Santerre
The Effect of Tax Exemption on the Market Share of Nonprofit Hospitals
National Tax Journal , volume 46 , p. 477 - 486 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
216
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,034
RANK
322,924
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Demand for Collective Goods in Private Nonprofit Markets: Can Fundraising Expenditures Help Overcome Free-Rider Behavior?

By Burton A. Weisbrod

Financial Reporting Factors Affecting Donations to Charitable Not-for-Profit Organizations

By John M. Trussel and Linda M. Parsons

The Efficiency of Volunteering Organisations: A Free Disposal Hull Analysis of Italian Health Volunteering

By O.w. Maietta and Sergio Destefanis

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies