Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disclosure Management in the Nonprofit Sector: A Framework for Past and Future Research

Posted: 10 Jun 2011

Mary Ann Hofmann

Appalachian State University

Dwayne McSwain

Appalachian State University

Date Written: June 9, 2011

Abstract

This paper provides a review and synthesis of past research regarding financial disclosure management by nonprofit organizations, and suggests directions for future study. We begin by defining disclosure management in nonprofit organizations and exploring the motivations for why it might occur. We also review nonprofit financial reporting objectives, practices and the informational needs of the users of nonprofit financial reports. Research into the motives, methods, and consequences of disclosure management is summarized. The evidence suggests that nonprofit managers have a variety of incentives to manage reported numbers, and that they do in fact alter spending decisions, choose accounting methods, and design cost allocations to achieve certain performance benchmarks. However, many questions remain unanswered: just how serious is this problem and what can or should be done about it?

Keywords: earnings management, nonprofit accounting

JEL Classification: H26

Suggested Citation:

Hofmann, Mary Ann and McSwain, Dwayne, Disclosure Management in the Nonprofit Sector: A Framework for Past and Future Research (June 9, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1861307
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,291
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies