Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Exempt Organization Financial Data: Availability and Limitations

Posted: 15 Nov 1999

Teresa P. Gordon

University of Idaho

Janet S. Greenlee

University of Dayton - School of Business Administration

Denise Nitterhouse

DePaul University - School of Accountancy and Management Information Systems (MIS)

Abstract

Historically, information about tax-exempt organizations has often been hard to obtain. The 1996 tax act requires a tax-exempt organization to provide a copy of its informational Form 990 to anyone who requests it and specifies penalties for noncompliance. Form 990 information on most tax-exempt organizations is also being made available in digitized form. The ready availability of such financial information will subject nonprofit reporting to greater scrutiny than ever before. Accountants need to be aware that preparer error rates may become public information. This paper describes recent developments that are making Form 990 data available to researchers and the general public and describes the data that is available. It then discusses potential uses for the data as well as limitations of the data, and considers possible implications for nonprofit managers, donors and accounting firms.

JEL Classification: M41, M48, K34

Suggested Citation:

Gordon, Teresa P. and Greenlee, Janet S. and Nitterhouse, Denise, Tax-Exempt Organization Financial Data: Availability and Limitations. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=186133
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,983
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies