Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting on the Past: A New Approach to Improving Accounting Today

15 Pages Posted: 7 Nov 1999

Russell J. Lundholm

University of British Columbia - Sauder School of Business

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 4, 1999

Abstract

In the last few years the financial accounting model has been attacked on a number of fronts. Some argue that the model reports irrelevant information in today's knowledge-based economy, while others argue that the model's reporting discretion makes the results unreliable. Accruals allow the model to report wealth creation or depletion in a more timely manner, yet they also allow abuse when the underlying estimates are intentionally distorted. But surprisingly, the accuracy of the estimates underlying the accruals is never examined; rather current accruals are mixed together with the reversals of prior accruals. I propose that the financial reporting model be amended to report on the ex post accuracy of a firm's prior estimates. Doing so will identify firms who have abused their reporting discretion in the past and provide valuable information about the expected credibility of the firm's disclosures in the present. Firms will also have a greater incentive to make accurate estimates and accruals if they know that opportunistic estimates will be explicitly revealed in the future. Finally, accounting regulators might be more inclined to recognize non-traditional assets in the financial statements if a system is in place that gives firms an incentive to accurately estimate the value of these assets. In the paper I give an example of the type of disclosure I am proposing, discuss the benefits it offers to investors, and address some practical implementation issues.

JEL Classification: G18, G28, G38, M41, M45

Suggested Citation:

Lundholm, Russell J., Reporting on the Past: A New Approach to Improving Accounting Today (June 4, 1999). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=188308 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.188308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Elliot , P Jacobson
accounting: a national emergency
Journal of Accountancy , p. 54 - 62 Posted: 1991-11
Qualitative characteristics of accounting information
Statement of financial accounting concepts , issue 2 Posted: 1980
Y Ijiri , R Jaedicke
Reliability and objectivity of accounting measurements
The Accounting Review , volume 41 , p. 474 - 83 Posted: 1966-07
G Imhoff
Evaluating accounting alternatives
Management Accounting , p. 54 - 72 Posted: 1981-10
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,213
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,910
RANK
39,723
3 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Detecting Earnings Management: A New Approach

By Patricia Dechow, Amy P. Hutton, ...

A Review of the Earnings Management Literature and its Implications for Standard Setting

By Paul M. Healy and James Michael Wahlen

Errors in Estimating Accruals: Implications for Empirical Research

By Daniel W. Collins and Paul Hribar

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies