Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contracting Out Municipal Accounting: The Role of Institutional Entrepreneurship

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Forthcoming

Posted: 3 Aug 2011

Timo Hyvonen

Tampere University; Tampere University - School of Business Administration

Janne Jarvinen

University of Oulu

Lasse Oulasvirta

Tampere University - Department of Administrative Science

Jukka Pellinen

University of Jyväskylä

Date Written: August 2, 2011

Abstract

Purpose: This paper explores the emergence of accounting shared service centers (SSCs) in the municipal sector.

Design/methodology/approach: The theoretical framework of this interpretative study draws on institutional entrepreneurship that highlights the importance of actors and agency for institutions and institutional change.

Findings: Institutional entrepreneurs operate on many institutional levels simultaneously. On the organizational field level they must find groups of actors with whom they share interests. At the organizational level the institutional entrepreneurs must find and recognize critical audiences that are receptive to their agenda.

Research limitations/implications: Our data comprises interviews and archival data; we were not present to observe the institutional entrepreneurs in action.

Originality/value: The paper contributes to the accounting literature by investigating institutional entrepreneurship at the organizational field level, which has not been much empirically researched.

Classification: Research paper

Keywords: accounting shared service center, local government, institutional theory, active agency, institutional entrepreneurship

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Hyvonen, Timo and Jarvinen, Janne and Oulasvirta, Lasse and Pellinen, Jukka, Contracting Out Municipal Accounting: The Role of Institutional Entrepreneurship (August 2, 2011). Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1903891
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,287
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies