Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Combating Moral Hazard: The Case for Rationalizing Public Employee Benefits

45 Indiana Law Review 413 (2011-2012)

Boston Univ. School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 11-36

68 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2011 Last revised: 9 May 2014

Maria O'Brien

Boston University School of Law

Date Written: August 4, 2011

Abstract

The current crisis in public employee benefits is a fairly conventional moral hazard story about overly generous promises made by both private sector employers and politicians spending public dollars. The private sector, forced by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in 1993 to confront the true cost of promises made to future retirees, dealt with the newly discovered debt in a number of ways, including the termination of defined benefit plans which were quickly replaced by defined contribution plans. The public sector was also forced to confront its own largesse with the implementation of GASB 45 which focused careful attention on the present value of the level of benefits promised. This period of scrutiny coincided with skyrocketing health care costs and a deep recession that saw enormous private sector job loss and, unsurprisingly, growing resentment by private sector employees of the relatively lavish benefits still enjoyed by unionized public workers. This paper describes the astonishing scope of public sector benefits-driven indebtedness and provides an account which contrasts the prudent self-correction process in the private sector with the ongoing struggle of many states to address the issue. In addition, the paper proposes specific reforms - the movement of all employees into DC plans, mandated use of realistic rates of return, the explicit promotion of the cultural norms of thrift and frugality, and, in extreme cases where the political landscape appears incapable of responding effectively to the crisis, the modification of legal regimes to prohibit collective bargaining over benefits - for policy makers to consider.

Keywords: public sector unions, moral hazard, defined benefits pensions, defined contribution pensions, GASB 45, FAS 106, FASB, retiree heath care, Financial Accounting Standards Board, Governmental Accounting Standards Board

JEL Classification: K31, K39

Suggested Citation:

O'Brien, Maria, Combating Moral Hazard: The Case for Rationalizing Public Employee Benefits (August 4, 2011). 45 Indiana Law Review 413 (2011-2012), Boston Univ. School of Law, Public Law Research Paper No. 11-36, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1904939
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
For background on the debate, see Amanda Terkel, The Wisconsin Collective Bargaining Fight: Behind The Scenes, Huffington Post Posted: 2011-06-23
Abby Sewell , &amp; Michael Muskal
Indiana Democrats flee to Illinois in protest of union legislation, LA Times Posted: 2011-02-23
Dawn Rhodes , Hailey Branson-Potts &amp; Erin , Meyer
The Wisconsin Supreme Court cleared the way on Tuesday for significant cuts to collective bargaining rights for public workers in the state
NY Times Posted: 2011-02-21
Amy Merrick
Wisconsin Union Law to Take Effect
WSJ Posted: 2011-06-15
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
267
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,073
RANK
261,451
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Boston University School of Law Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies