Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Control Systems, Results-Oriented Culture, and Performance: Empirical Evidence on New Public Management

AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

37 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2011 Last revised: 23 Jun 2013

Roland F. Spekle

Nyenrode Business University

Frank Verbeeten

Utrecht University - School of Economics

Date Written: May 31, 2013

Abstract

New Public Management (NPM) has been guiding public sector reform for about 25 years now. Its position on the design of effective management control structures rests on three key ideas: (1) performance improvement requires a results-oriented culture that emphasizes outcomes rather than inputs or processes, (2) public sector organizations need to introduce performance management based on targets, monitoring, and incentives, and (3) public sector organizations should decentralize decision rights and reduce the reliance on rules and procedures. We examine the validity of these ideas, addressing the full set of instruments that NPM calls upon to establish effective control. We also take into account NPM’s contention that the effects of management control choices on performance may be indirect, operating through their impact on results-oriented culture. We conclude that NPM’s reform programme should be reconsidered. Although the evidence indicates that a results-oriented culture is positively associated with performance, we find little support for the assumed benefits of NPM-type performance contracting. In addition, the results suggest that both the effects of decentralization and the reliance on rules and procedures are opposite to NPM’s expectations.

Keywords: New Public Management, Management Control, Performance Measurement Systems

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Spekle, Roland F. and Verbeeten, Frank H.M., Management Control Systems, Results-Oriented Culture, and Performance: Empirical Evidence on New Public Management (May 31, 2013). AAA 2012 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1908703 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1908703
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
M A Abernethy , E Vagnoni
Power, organization design and managerial behaviour
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
Crossref
P S Adler , B Borys
Two types of bureaucracy: enabling and coercive
Administrative Science Quarterly , volume 41 , p. 61 - 89 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Accounting for flexibility and efficiency: a field study of management control systems in a restaurant chain
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 21 , p. 271 - 301 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Roland F. Spekle , Frank H.M. Verbeeten , Sally K. Widener
Nondyadic Control Systems and Effort Direction Effectiveness: Evidence from the Public Sector
Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming · 45 Pages · Posted: 17 Aug 2018 · Last revised: 19 Oct 2021 · Downloads: 341
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Berend van der Kolk
Management Control Packages: A Literature Review and Guidelines for Public Sector Research
26 Pages · Posted: 16 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 131
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
766
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,729
RANK
75,332
2 Citations
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies