Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linkages between the Elements of Management Control Systems in a Non-Profit Organization

25 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2011

Marko Järvenpää

University of Jyväskylä - School of Business and Economics

Aapo Ilmari Länsiluoto

Seinäjoki Business School

Date Written: August 17, 2011

Abstract

This qualitative case study examines the emergence of MCS package. We apply the MCS package framework of [Malmi, T. and Brown, D.A. (2008) Management control systems as a package-Opportunities, challenges and research directions, Management Accounting Research, Vol. 19, Iss. 4, pp. 287-300] and investigate the linkages between different control elements of MCS package. The control elements of MCS package, particularly governance structures and cybernetic systems became often overlapping and redundant. All the control elements remained in the MCS package when they were once constructed. Even tough a large number of cybernetic controls (i.e. balanced scorecard, budgets, quality management system; EFQM) were applied, only one non-financial measure was crucial at the time. Also informal control system outperformed two official cybernetic control elements used. Different control elements of MCS package were linked to each other causing complexity and challenges to manage MCS package as a one coherent system. This might be a challenge if ownership and governance structures are unclear.

Keywords: management control systems, package, control elements, redundancy

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Järvenpää, Marko and Länsiluoto, Aapo Ilmari, Linkages between the Elements of Management Control Systems in a Non-Profit Organization (August 17, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1911135 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1911135
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M A Abernethy , W Chua
Field study of control system ‗Redesign': the impact of institutional process on strategic choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
T Ahrens , A Becker , J Burns , C S Chapman , M Granlund , M Habersam , A Hansen , R Khalifa , T Malmi , A Mennicken , A Mikes , F Panozzo , M Piber , P Quattrone , T Scheytt
The future of interpretive accounting research , volume 19 , p. 840 - 866 Posted: 2008
Crossref
T Ahrens , C Chapman
Doing qualitative field research in management accounting: Positioning data to contributing the theory , volume 31 , p. 819 - 84 Posted: 2006
Crossref
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research
Journal of Manage Accounting Research , volume 10 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
649
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,602
RANK
93,330
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies