Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 33, 2014

40 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2011 Last revised: 6 Dec 2014

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Chao Guo

Penn School of Social Policy & Practice, University of Pennsylvania

Date Written: January 2, 2014

Abstract

Nonprofit organizations face intense competition in the market for charitable contributions. Increasingly, donation decisions are made online, and organizations have responded by implementing substantive Internet disclosure and reporting regimes. We posit here that the voluntary disclosure of financial and performance information inherent in these regimes provides additional relevant information to a broad array of market participants, and thus has a positive impact on the receipt of charitable contributions. We test our hypotheses on a random sample of 400 US nonprofit organizations by building on the well established economic model of giving (Weisbrod and Dominguez, 1986), in which donations serve as the proxy for demand. Our central research question is thus: Are donors willing to “pay” for Web disclosure? Results indicate a positive relationship between the level of charitable contributions and the amount of disclosure provided by an organization on its website; however, performance and annual report disclosure are more important than financial disclosure, and performance disclosure has the biggest impact in organizations that are less reliant on donations.

Keywords: voluntary disclosure, Internet financial reporting, nonprofit organizations, donations, charitable contributions, non-financial disclosure, performance disclosure

JEL Classification: D80, L31, M41, O33

Suggested Citation:

Saxton, Gregory D. and Neely, Daniel and Guo, Chao, Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions (January 2, 2014). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 33, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1912966 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1912966
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W P Barnett , M T Hansen
The red queen in organizational evolution
Strategic Management Journal , volume 17 , p. 139 - 157 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Mary E. Barth , William H. Beaver , Wayne R. Landsman
The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
JAE Rochester Conference April 2000 Pages: 41 Posted: 10 Nov 2000
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B K Behn , D Devries , J Lin
The determinants of transparency in nonprofit organizations: An exploratory study
Advances in Accounting , volume 26 , p. 6 - 12 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R D Behn
Rethinking democratic accountability Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
322
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,581
RANK
214,632
16 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

By Christine Petrovits, Catherine Shakespeare, ...

Audit Value and Charitable Organizations

By Karen A. Kitching

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies