Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of National Culture on Government Budgeting Practices: An International Analysis

60 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2011

Yanxia Qi

China University of Petroleum - School of Business Administration, Department of Accounting and Finance

Yaw M. Mensah

Rutgers Business School - Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: August 20, 2011

Abstract

Differences in cultural philosophy at the national level have been theorized to affect business practices, legal systems, social behavior norms, educational achievements, and even the rate of economic growth. We extend this literature to examine the effect of national culture on government budgeting practices, using Hofstede’s (1980, 1983) 4-factor cultural dimensions. Government budgeting practices are classified with respect to the extent to which the legislative body controls government expenditures (Legislative “Power of the Purse”), and also the extent to which the budgets are transparent to both the legislature and the general public (Budget Transparency). Using data from 49 countries covered in both the OECD/World Bank (2007/2008) Government Budgeting Practices Surveys and Hofstede’s national cultural dimensions study, we find the following: (1) Hofstede’s Masculinity and Uncertainty Avoidance indices are both positively related to the Legislative Power of the Purse measure; and (2) the Individualism index is significantly and positively related to Budgeting Transparency. The implications of these findings are then discussed.

Keywords: National Culture, Legislative Power of the Purse, Budget Transparency, Cultural Dimensions

JEL Classification: H72, M41, R50, Z10

Suggested Citation:

Qi, Yanxia and Mensah, Yaw M., The Influence of National Culture on Government Budgeting Practices: An International Analysis (August 20, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1913421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1913421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
G L Harrison , J L Mckinnon
Culture and Accounting Change: A New Perspective on Corporate Reporting Regulation and Accounting Policy
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 11 , issue 3 , p. 233 - 252 Posted: 1986
Crossref
G L Harrison , J L Mckinnon
Cross-cultural research in management control systems design: A review of the current state
Accounting, Organizations and Society , issue 24 , p. 483 - 506 Posted: 1999
Crossref
G Hofstede
Culture's Consequences: International Differences in Work-Related Values Posted: 1980
G Hofstede
Culture and organizations
International Studies of Management and Organisation , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 15 - 41 Posted: 1981
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,537
RANK
252,723
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies