Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Church Tax on Church Membership

Government Institute for Economic Research Working Papers No. 20

44 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2011

Teemu Lyytikäinen

Government of the Republic of Finland - VATT Institute for Economic Research; Spatial Economics Research Centre (SERC)

Torsten Santavirta

Aalto University

Date Written: December 30, 2010

Abstract

In this study we examine the effect of church tax on the church membership decision using Finnish data. We present both descriptive statistics from an opting-out website and econometric evidence exploiting the panel structure of a large individual-level data set. Our descriptive analysis shows that opting-out is concentrated towards the last days of the year, i.e., the last chance to avoid paying church tax for the entire coming year. Our econometric evidence suggests however, that the average effect of tax incentives in the whole population is very small in magnitude, while being statistically significant. The price elasticity of church membership is roughly -0.01. In addition, we find that church membership dropped substantially when a law change made opting-out significantly easier. This finding suggests that transaction costs play an important role in the membership decision.

Keywords: church tax, church membership, transaction cost

JEL Classification: H24, H31, Z12

Suggested Citation:

Lyytikäinen, Teemu and Santavirta, Torsten, The Effect of Church Tax on Church Membership (December 30, 2010). Government Institute for Economic Research Working Papers No. 20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1926631 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1926631
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
R Deheija , T Deleire , E Luttmer
Insuring consumption and happiness through religious organizations
Journal of Public Economics , volume 91 , p. 259 - 279 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Tendency to adhere to the default option has been documented, for instance, in participation to pension saving programs Posted: 2001
L L Francis , Y J Katz
Joining and leaving religion: Research perspectives Posted: 2000
J Gruber
Religious market structure, religious participation, and outcomes: Is religion good for you?
Advances in Economic Analysis & Policy , volume 5 Posted: 2005
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,021
RANK
631,616
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies