Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Archival Data Sources to Conduct Nonprofit Accounting Research

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 26, No. 3 (Fall 2014): 458-493

Posted: 22 Sep 2011 Last revised: 30 Apr 2015

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Qianhua Ling

Marquette University

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: February 13, 2013

Abstract

Though the nonprofit sector is a vital part of the U.S. economy, research in nonprofit accounting is relatively limited. Lack of information on the data may be part of the reason. In an effort to broaden the awareness of the data sources and ensure the quality of nonprofit research, we discuss archival data sources available to nonprofit researchers, data issues, and potential resolutions to those problems. Our review encompasses three broad topical areas: financial reporting, compensation, and auditing. Overall, our paper should raise awareness of data sources in the nonprofit area, increase production, and enhance the quality of nonprofit research.

Keywords: nonprofit, charity, databases, research

JEL Classification: M10, M40

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun and Ling, Qianhua and Neely, Daniel and Alston Roberts, Andrea, Using Archival Data Sources to Conduct Nonprofit Accounting Research (February 13, 2013). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 26, No. 3 (Fall 2014): 458-493, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1932153 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1932153
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,417
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies