Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Boards: Size, Performance, and Managerial Incentives

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

52 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2011

Rajesh K. Aggarwal

Northeastern University

Mark E. Evans

Wake Forest University

Dhananjay Nanda

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 1, 2011

Abstract

We examine relations between board size, managerial incentives and enterprise performance in nonprofit organizations. We posit that a nonprofit's demand for directors increases in the number of programs it pursues, resulting in a positive association between program diversity and board size. Consequently, we predict that board size is inversely related to managerial pay-performance incentives and positively with overall organization performance. We find empirical evidence consistent with our hypotheses. The number of programs is positively related to board size. Board size is associated negatively with managerial incentives, positively with program spending and fundraising performance, and negatively with commercial revenue, in levels and changes.

Keywords: Nonprofits, incentives, boards of directors

JEL Classification: D21, G34, J33, L31, M40

Suggested Citation:

Aggarwal, Rajesh K. and Evans, Mark E. and Nanda, Dhananjay, Nonprofit Boards: Size, Performance, and Managerial Incentives (September 1, 2011). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1941790
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, information costs, and economic organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 777 - 795 Posted: 1972
Crossref
E Appelbaum , L Hunter
Emerging Labor Market Institutions for the Twenty-First Century , p. 265 - 291 Posted: 2004
W R Baber , P L Daniel , A A Roberts
Compensation to managers of charitable organizations: An empirical study of the role of accounting measures of program activities
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , p. 679 - 693 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Ben-Ner , T Van Hoomissen
Nonprofit organizations in a mixed economy: A demand and supply analysis
Annals of Public and Cooperative Economics , volume 62 , p. 519 - 50 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
452
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,768
RANK
146,434
2 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Indiana University Kelley School of Business Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Modern Industrial Revolution, Exit, and the Failure of Internal Control Systems

By Michael C. Jensen (deceased)

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

Boards of Directors as an Endogenously Determined Institution: A Survey of the Economic Literature

By Benjamin E. Hermalin and Michael S. Weisbach

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies