Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Special Breed? - A Longitudional and Cross-Sectional Study of Norwegian Budgeting and Financial Civil Servants

Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 14 Oct 2011

Per Lægreid

University of Bergen - Department of Administration and Organization Theory

Tom Christensen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 13, 2011

Abstract

This article focuses on civil servants in the central Norwegian civil service whose main tasks are budgeting, supervision and accounting. The main research questions are: What is their typical demographic profile? How has their demographic profile changed over time? What are the effects of having budgeting, supervising and accounting as a main task on civil servants’ attitudes and behavior? The main findings are that they have a specific profile. There are significant differences between ministries and central agencies as well as changes over time and also marked differences with other civil servants regarding their attitudes and behavior.

Keywords: civil servants, budgeting, supervision, accounting, demography

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Laegreid, Per and Christensen, Tom, A Special Breed? - A Longitudional and Cross-Sectional Study of Norwegian Budgeting and Financial Civil Servants (October 13, 2011). Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1943402
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
847
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies