Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness of Auditing for Proper Accountability in Nigerian Local Governments

Posted: 7 Nov 2011

hassan ibrahim kuta

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: June 10, 2008

Abstract

Internal audit Unit/department and External Auditors from office of the Auditor General for Local Governments of the state are two control mechanisms instituted in the Nigerian Local Governments in order to ensure accountability and transparency on public funds. Despite the presence of these control mechanisms, our local governments are characterized by fraud, mismanagement of resources, extravagance, waste and irregular expenditures. The main concerned of this study is on the assessment of the effectiveness of Auditing in Nigeria Local Governments for proper accountability. Data for the study were collected from primary and secondary sources. Primary data were sourced through questionnaire and interview. Secondary data, on the other hand, were sourced from journals, text books and other relevant materials. Such data were analyzed using tables, simple percentages and Chi-square was used to test the hypothesis. The study found out that auditing in Nigeria Local Governments is ineffective. Factors responsible for the ineffectiveness include, among others; lack of independence of the internal auditors because they are answerable to the chairmen, non-preparation of an audit programmed, insufficient funds, understaffing and that due recognition is not accorded to auditors report and recommendations. The study also found out that external auditors performed their major function of post-payment audit. Based on the findings, the study recommends that internal auditors should not be answerable to the chairmen of their local governments, so that they can be more independent and the external auditors should also be involved in performing pre-payment audit instead of post-payment audit, this is due to the fact that they are situated in each local government permanently as Area auditors.

Keywords: Auditing, Accountability, Local Government

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

kuta, hassan ibrahim, Effectiveness of Auditing for Proper Accountability in Nigerian Local Governments (June 10, 2008). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1955528
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,319
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies