Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Art and European VAT

International VAT Monitor, pp. 99-104, March/April 2005

9 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2011

Sigrid Hemels

Erasmus University Rotterdam (EUR) - Erasmus School of Law; Lund University School of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 7, 2005

Abstract

Works of art which are imported or supplied by their creator, his successors in title, or a taxable person other than a taxable dealer who acquired the art in one of the ways mentioned above, may be taxed under the reduced VAT rate (Article 12, sub 3c Sixth VAT directive). This tax incentive is very important for artists as they sell a lot of their work to customers who are not taxable and for whom the reduced rate therefore means a real price difference. For example, in 1995 artists in the Netherlands sold 77% of their uncommissioned, and 69% of their commissioned work to private persons, municipalities and government institutions.

But what is art? This question has kept art historians, art sociologists and art critics, to name only a few, busy for quite a while. Up to now they have not been able to come up with a general answer which is independent of time or place. For contemporary art it has been even more problematic to define the borders of what is and what is not art. This makes it remarkable that Annex I to the Sixth VAT directive provides for a detailed and closed definition of works of art. In this article I will examine some problems this definition has caused. I will also give some recommendations to change this definition and the way it is applied. The Resale right directive can prove to be useful in this respect.

Keywords: Value added tax, VAT, art, European Union, tax law

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

Hemels, Sigrid, Art and European VAT (January 7, 2005). International VAT Monitor, pp. 99-104, March/April 2005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1959979
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Customs Court (Tariefcommissie) , issue 5660 Posted: 1951-04-24
Crossref
For a more elaborate discussion on the Dutch and the definition of works of art see: S.J.C. Hemels, Thorbecke en de fiscalisten; beoordeling van kunst in de omzetbelasting
S J C Hemels
Het Europese kunstbegrip en de Nederlandse omzetbelasting Weekblad fiscaal recht , p. 369 - 373 Posted: 2003-06-11
Hof &apos;s-Hertogenbosch
99/01359, NTFR 2003/1148 and Posted: 2003-03-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,009
RANK
403,275
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Simplifying Tax Laws as a Result of Budgeting and Accounting for Tax Incentives Differently

By Sigrid Hemels

Tax Incentives for the Arts: The Case of the Netherlands

By Sigrid Hemels

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies