Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risk-Based Management Control in the Public Sector: A Live Experiment in Poland

16 Pages Posted: 30 Nov 2011 Last revised: 13 Jan 2012

Karol Marek Klimczak

Lodz University of Technology

Anna Marta Pikos

Kozminski University

Date Written: November 30, 2011

Abstract

Management control systems play a significant role in New Public Management reforms. This paper presents the case of Poland, where a small group of enthusiasts at the Ministry of Finance is attempting to enforce dramatic changes in control systems across the public sector. The changes are both technical and cultural. The new system is called 'management control' as opposed to 'internal financial control'. It is based on risk assessment and management, modeled on the British HM Treasury Orange Book standard. Moreover, the main sponsors of the new systems are internal auditors, a new professional group that is being developed since 2001 as an opposition to traditional control structures. The actor-network theory literature in management control systems predicts that the adoption of this innovation is contingent upon the sponsors ability to stimulate the translation process and to recruit allies who would support it. We document the developments of the reform to date and contribute two empirical studies: a survey of first reactions to the new system and a risk perception study. Both studies show that neither problematization nor interessment can be taken for granted. However, the new system has been embedded in national public finance law, which means that at least formally, it will persist. We discuss the potential for future research in the context presented.

Keywords: risk, change, actors

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Klimczak, Karol Marek and Pikos, Anna Marta, Risk-Based Management Control in the Public Sector: A Live Experiment in Poland (November 30, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1966443 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1966443
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
M A Abernethy , Wai Fong Chua
A Field Study of Control System "Redesign": The Impact of Institutional Processes on Strategic Choice
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 569 - 606 Posted: 1996
Crossref
S Alcouffe , N Berland , Y Levant
Actor-networks and the diffusion of management accounting innovations: A comparative study
Management Accounting Research , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Almqvist , B Catasús , M Skoog
Towards the next generation of public management: A study of management control and communication in the Swedish Armed Forces
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 122 - 145 Posted: 2011
J Baxter , W F Chua
Alternative management accounting research-whence and whither. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 97 - 126 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,660
RANK
349,147
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Performance Regimes Amidst Governance Complexity

By Donald P. Moynihan, Sergio Fernandez, ...

The Big Question for Performance Management: Explaining Performance Information Use

By Donald P. Moynihan and Sanjay K. Pandey

Addressing Public Risks: Extreme Events and Critical Infrastructures

By Peter May and Chris Koski

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies