Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Challenges of Public Sector Audit as an Effective Accountability Tool in PPP Arrangements in Nigeria

6 Pages Posted: 11 Dec 2011

Okaro Sunday Chukwunedu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Gloria Ogochukwu Okafor

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: December 8, 2011

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore some of the challenges constraining public sector audit from acting as an effective accountability tool in PPP arrangements in Nigeria and to proffer solutions. This is a conceptual paper and relies on extensive review of literature. We find, among others, that inadequate independence of the supreme audit institution (SAI), Poor accounting environment, lack of executive capacity, the unsatisfactory performance of the Public accounts committee (PAC) and poor use of technology pose serious challenges to public sector audit as an effective accountability tool in PPP arrangements in Nigeria. Some of our recommendations include the strengthening of the independence of the supreme audit institution, bestirring the PAC to be alive to its responsibilities and improving the accounting environment.

Keywords: Audit, PPP, Auditor-General, Accountability, Public sector, Effective Tool, Challenges

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Chukwunedu, Okaro Sunday and Okafor, Gloria Ogochukwu, The Challenges of Public Sector Audit as an Effective Accountability Tool in PPP Arrangements in Nigeria (December 8, 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1970070 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1970070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
M Ahmed
PPP for Infrastrutural Development-The Nigerian Experience Posted: 2011
F N Anyanwu
Audit Profile: Office of the Auditor General for the Federation of Nigeria
International Journal of Government Auditing , volume 28 , issue 2 , p. 13 - 14 Posted: 2001
Auditor General , N
Achieving Public Sector Outcomes with Private sector Partners Posted: 2006
D L Crumbley
What is Forensic Accounting
Journal of Forensic Accounting, IX , issue 1 , p. 1 - 1 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3,018
ABSTRACT VIEWS
13,337
RANK
9,558
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Forensic Accounting Education: A Survey of Academicians and Practitioners

By Zabihollah Rezaee, D. Larry Crumbley, ...

Fishbowl the Forensic Accountant: Are There Differences in the Views of the Relevant Skills of a Forensic Accountant Among Practitioners, Academics and Users of Forensic Accounting Services?

By James A. Digabriele

Perception of Forensic Accountants About Elaboration of Free Judicial Expertise in Brazil

By Idalberto José Das Neves Júnior, Anna Paula Sousa, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies