Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Performance-Based Budgeting on State Government Expenditures

48 Pages Posted: 10 Dec 2011 Last revised: 9 Apr 2012

Yanxia Qi

China University of Petroleum - School of Business Administration, Department of Accounting and Finance

Yaw M. Mensah

Rutgers Business School - Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: April 8, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the economic effects of the adoption and implementation of performance-based budgeting (PBB) at the state government level. We examine the association between the implementation of PBB and aggregate state expenditures from the General Fund and Other State Funds, and further analyze whether PBB affects combined functional spending: Future-oriented expenditures (Public Education, Higher Education, and Transportation), Social expenditures (Public Aid, and Public Health/Medicaid), Public safety expenditures (Correctional Facilities) and Other expenditures. We find that the implementation of PBB is negatively associated with total expenditures from General Fund and positively associated with total expenditures from Other State Funds. The effect of PBB on combined functional spending is significantly negative for Future-oriented expenditures and Socially-oriented expenditures from the General Fund, but there is a positive relationship between PBB and Future-oriented expenditures (transportation projects) and Socially-oriented expenditures from dedicated Other State Funds. We conclude that PBB is effective in getting state governments to reorganize their spending priorities.

Keywords: Economic Effects, Future-Oriented Spending, Performance-Based Budgeting, Social Spending, State Government Expenditures

JEL Classification: H72, H75, M49

Suggested Citation:

Qi, Yanxia and Mensah, Yaw M., An Empirical Analysis of the Effects of Performance-Based Budgeting on State Government Expenditures (April 8, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1970079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1970079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
11 References
C A Broom
Performance-Based Government Models: Building a Track Record
Public Budgeting and Finance , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 3 - 17 Posted: 1995
Crossref
J L Chan
Government Budget and Accounting Reforms in the United States
Models of Public Budgeting and Accounting Reform , volume 2 , p. 187 - 216 Posted: 2002
W M Crain , J B Roark
The Impact of Performance-Based Budgeting on State Fiscal Performance
Economics of Governance , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 186 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Managing for Results, Annual Performance Report. Department of Budget and Management Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
574
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,235
RANK
109,268
3 Citations
11 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Transition: The Significance of the Carter Years in American Fiscal and Budgetary Policy

By Yilin Hou

The Performance of Performance-Based Budgeting in Boom Versus Bust Years: An Analytical Framework and Survey of States

By Yilin Hou

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies