Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor Size and Internal Control Reporting Differences in Nonprofit Healthcare Organizations

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting, and Financial Management, 25(1): 41-68, 2013.

Posted: 21 Dec 2011 Last revised: 27 Jan 2017

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Pamela C. Smith

University of Texas at San Antonio - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 20, 2011

Abstract

We investigate whether auditor size is associated with the disclosure of internal control exceptions among Circular A-133 audits of nonprofit healthcare organizations. Our focus on auditor report outcomes within the nonprofit healthcare sector is timely and relevant, given the sector’s growth and escalating concern for accountability and transparency. Using a sample of 1,180 Circular A-133 audit reports from 2004 to 2008, we find evidence that audits performed by Big 4 firms are less likely to disclose reportable conditions and material weaknesses than those performed by smaller CPA firms. Additional analyses indicate this relation only remains statistically significant for a subsample of small nonprofit healthcare organizations, possibly due to greater selectivity or lower efforts by the Big 4 auditors. Our descriptive statistics also suggest that the market share of the Big 4 firms for Circular A-133 audits decreased during the sample period. We discuss the potential implications of these findings from an audit quality, market dominance, and client size perspective. The results are relevant to hospital financial managers wanting to obtain higher quality audits at a lower cost.

Keywords: Auditor size, Circular A-133, Big 4 firms, Nonprofit healthcare, Single Audit Act

JEL Classification: I11, M49, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rich, Kevin T. and Lopez, Dennis M. and Smith, Pamela C., Auditor Size and Internal Control Reporting Differences in Nonprofit Healthcare Organizations (December 20, 2011). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting, and Financial Management, 25(1): 41-68, 2013., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1974950
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,233
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

NGO & Non-Profit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies