Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Quality, Auditor Choice and Adoption of IFRS: A Cross Country Analysis

Advances in Accounting, 28(2),307-316

49 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2012 Last revised: 4 Jan 2013

Noor Houqe

School of Accountancy

Reza Monem

Griffith University - Griffith Business School; Griffith Business School, Griffith University

Tony van Zijl

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Faculty of Commerce and Administration

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 21, 2011

Abstract

We examine the association between country-level government quality and firms’ choice of external auditors. Using a cross-sectional sample of 142,193 firm-year observations from 46 countries over 1998-2007, we show that the government quality of a country has a significant positive effect on the likelihood of choosing Big 4 auditors by firms in that country. We also show that firms in countries with strong governments that have adopted IFRS are more likely to choose Big 4 than non-Big 4 auditors. To our knowledge, this is the first study of its kind to provide direct evidence on the role of government quality in firms’ choice of external auditors. Choice of a Big 4 auditor may be regarded as a proxy for the demand for high quality financial reporting, and thus the results provide insights for policy makers on the importance of government quality improving financial reporting quality in a country.

Keywords: Government quality, Auditor quality, IFRS

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Houqe, Muhammad Nurul and Monem, Reza M. and van Zijl, Tony, Government Quality, Auditor Choice and Adoption of IFRS: A Cross Country Analysis (December 21, 2011). Advances in Accounting, 28(2),307-316, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1975615 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1975615
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
301
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,274
RANK
139,038
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

International Accounting Standards and Accounting Quality

By Mary E. Barth, Wayne R. Landsman, ...

Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences

By Holger Daske, Luzi Hail, ...

International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): Pros and Cons for Investors

By Ray Ball

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies