Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Discussion of the Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

24 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2012

Laurence van Lent

Frankfurt School of Finance and Management

Date Written: January 6, 2012

Abstract

Kido, Petacchi and Weber [2012] investigate whether the occurrence of a state gubernatorial election is important to understanding the accrual choices of preparers of the state’s comprehensive annual financial report. Central to the authors’ argument is the idea that voters do not like budget deficits. Politicians, in response, have incentives to use accounting choices to mask deficits in the period before elections. Focusing on a specific accrual, the changes in compensated absences liability, the authors find evidence that the discretionary part of this accrual is smaller in the period before an election, which is consistent with politicians attempting to improve the picture of the state’s financial health. In addition, the authors show that accrual manipulation is positively associated with the vote share of incumbent governors in elections. In my discussion, I ask two questions: (1) how strong are governors’ political incentives to manipulate accruals in the run-up to elections? (2) Can the association between discretionary compensated absence accruals and elections be explained by forces other than politically motivated accounting manipulation? I argue that the incentives to manipulate accruals might well be weak given strong disciplinary mechanisms that induce politicians to transparency. What’s more, I document that elections might produce patterns in state employment. As the compensated absences liability is linked to the payroll, election-induced changes in state employment might be reflected in this accrual. Evidence of an association between the compensated absences accrual and elections, then, does not necessarily imply that politicians manage accounting numbers. To further illustrate this point, I show empirically that gubernatorial elections have little explanatory power for state financial reporting choices that are unaffected by state employment.

Keywords: Gubernatorial elections, Accounting manipulation, Transparency

JEL Classification: H70, H72, M41

Suggested Citation:

van Lent, Laurence, Discussion of the Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities (January 6, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980697 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1980697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
J E Alt , D D Lassen
Transparency, Political Polarization, and Political Budget Cycles in OECD Countries
American Journal of Political Science , volume 50 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2006
Crossref
J E.; D D Alt , S Lassen , Rose
The causes of fiscal transparency: evidence form the American states Posted: 2006
J E.; D D Alt , D Lassen , Skilling
Fiscal Transparency, Gubernatorial Approval, and the Scale of Government: Evidence from the States
State Politics & Policy Quarterly , volume 2 , p. 230 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J E Alt , R C Lowry
Transparency and Accountability: Empirical Results for US States
Journal of Theoretical Politics , volume 22 , p. 379 - 406 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
571
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,878
RANK
110,001
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

By Reining Petacchi, Nolan Kido, ...

Do governments hide resources from unions? The influence of public sector unions on reported discretionary fund balance ratios

By Angela K. Gore, Yuan Ji, ...

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies