Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restraining Medicare Abuse: The Case of Upcoding

Research in Healthcare Financial Management,Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 1-25, 2007

Posted: 29 Jan 2012 Last revised: 28 Jan 2012

Kirsten Harrington

Southwestern Adventist University - retired

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

Linda Ruchala

University of Nebraska at Lincoln

Date Written: 2007

Abstract

Many believe that some hospitals engage in upcoding, an act in which hospitals classify patients into a diagnosis related group (DRG) that yields higher reimbursement from Medicare than the DRG that is justified by patients' medical records. For example, hospitals are reimbursed more than twice as much for DRG 79 (respiratory infections & inflammations) than DRG 80 (pneumonia without complications). In part to combat this phenomenon, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) was passed and several enforcement actions soon followed. This paper investigates three issues arising from HIPAA regulation and enforcement. First, we investigate the effectiveness of HIPAA and the ensuing enforcement actions in combating upcoding. Second, we investigate the causes of upcoding by examining the hospital characteristics associated with upcoding. Finally, we investigate the determinants of the reduction in upcoding after HIPAA. Our results provide institutional information important to policy makers and regulatory officials in crafting future policy around the accountability of medical facilities and the prevention and detection of healthcare fraud.

Suggested Citation:

Harrington, Kirsten and Allen, Arthur C. and Ruchala, Linda, Restraining Medicare Abuse: The Case of Upcoding (2007). Research in Healthcare Financial Management,Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 1-25, 2007, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1980963
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,423
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Law, Policy & Ethics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies