Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Going Concern Audit Opinions on Nonprofit Revenues and Expenses

30 Pages Posted: 6 Mar 2012

Keval Amin

Stony Brook University

Erica Harris

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers University, Camden

Date Written: February 24, 2012

Abstract

Prior studies in the for-profit literature document a negative market reaction to going concern opinions. We extend this literature by focusing on the link between the going concern opinion and the revenues and expenses of nonprofit organizations. Our study employs a two-stage model. In the first stage, we predict the likelihood of a going concern. The second stage tests the relationships between a going concern and the organizations revenues and expenses. Our results indicate that while donors do appear to incorporate the signal of financial distress provided by a going concern into their contribution decisions, those who receive goods or services in return for their support do not. This evidence suggests that donors incorporate the organizations financial health into their decisions to the extent that they do not receive other services from the organization.

Keywords: going concern, nonprofit, financial distress

Suggested Citation:

Amin, Keval and Harris, Erica, The Impact of Going Concern Audit Opinions on Nonprofit Revenues and Expenses (February 24, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2015486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2015486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J S Greenlee , K L Brown
The impact of accounting information on contributions to charitable organizations
Research in Accounting Regulation , volume 13 , p. 111 - 125 Posted: 1999
L R Greenlee , J Trussel
Estimating the financial vulnerability of charitable organizations
Nonprofit Management and Leadership , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 199 - 210 Posted: 2000
Crossref
B Grein , S L Tate
Monitoring by Auditors: The Case of Public Housing Authorities
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 4 , p. 1289 - 1319 Posted: 2011
Crossref
E E Harris , J Krishnan
The impact of tarnished auditor reputation on nonprofit income
International Journal of Auditing Forthcoming Posted: 2012
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Anne-Mie Reheul , Tom Van Caneghem , Sandra Verbruggen
Financial Reporting Lags in the Non-profit Sector: An Empirical Analysis
VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 352 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
523
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,645
RANK
122,812
1 Citations
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies