Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Public Sector Efficiency: Issues and Methodologies

18 Pages Posted: 9 Mar 2012

Francisco Pedraja-Chaparro

University of Extremadura

Javier Salinas-Jiménez

Instituto de Estudios Fiscales

Peter C. Smith

University of York - Centre for Health Economics

Date Written: March 31, 2005

Abstract

Methodological issues relevant when assessing the efficiency of public units are discusses by Pedraja-Chaparro, Salinas-Jiménez and Smith with reference to non-parametric approaches. First they note that public sector activities usually are aimed at achieving various goals other than efficiency, and that often there is a trade-off among various objectives. Output from public sector units is usually not traded on the market and public sector units do not face competition and the threat of bankruptcy. Consequently, the techniques employed to estimate efficiency scores should adjust to take into account problems in the measurement of outputs and inputs and uncertainty as regards the technology. Given its flexibility, data envelopment analysis seems an appealing approach to be used when addressing public sector efficiency.

Suggested Citation:

Pedraja-Chaparro, Francisco and Salinas-Jiménez, Javier and Smith, Peter C., Assessing Public Sector Efficiency: Issues and Methodologies (March 31, 2005). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2018855 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2018855
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
N Adler , B Golany
Evaluation of Deregulated Airline Networks Using Data Envelopment Analysis Combined with Principal Components Analysis with an Application to Western Europe
European Journal of Operational Research , issue 132 , p. 260 - 73 Posted: 2001
Crossref
P Andersen , N C Petersen
A Procedure for Ranking Efficient Units in Data Envelopment Analysis
Management Science , volume 30 , issue 10 , p. 1261 - 64 Posted: 1993
Crossref
R D Banker , A Charnes , W W Cooper , J Swarts , D A Thomas
An Introduction to Data Envelopment Analysis with Some of Their Models and its Uses , p. 125 - 63 Posted: 1989
R D Banker , V M Gadh , W L Gorr
A Monte Carlo Comparison of Two Production Frontier Estimation Methods: Corrected Ordinary Least Squares and Data Envelopment Analysis
European Journal of Operational Research , issue 67 , p. 332 - 375 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
388
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,766
RANK
174,586
2 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies