Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Intergenerational Equity in Municipal Accounting: New Zealand 1910s

28 Pages Posted: 27 Mar 2012

Philip Colquhoun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: July 2011

Abstract

Accounting for fixed assets by municipalities has been discussed in the accounting history literature previously. This paper addresses two issues related to accounting for fixed assets not previously discussed; the influence of the principle of intergenerational equity on local government accounting, and the influence of users of accounting information in accounting policy making in government accounting. The paper identifies that users of accounting information have had significant influence in a debate on government accounting policy, and that the principle of intergenerational equity was given a position of high importance in the debate, but not an unchallengeable position. The motivation of the users of accounting information to engage in the debates is identified as a form of civic duty, which is consistent with the ethical imperative in ensuring intergenerational equity.

Keywords: Accounting History, Intergenerational Equity, Public Sector Accounting, Depreciation, New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Colquhoun, Philip, Intergenerational Equity in Municipal Accounting: New Zealand 1910s (July 2011). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028745 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2028745
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Barton
Accrual accounting and budgeting systems issues in Australian governments -a rejoiner
Australian Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 75 - 84 Posted: 2007
Crossref
A Barton
The use and abuse of accounting in the public sector financial management reform program in Australia
Abacus , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 221 - 269 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Brown
Democracy, sustainability and dialogic accounting technologies: Taking pluralism seriously
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 20 , p. 313 - 355 Posted: 2009
Crossref
G Bush
Local government & politics in New Zealand Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,305
RANK
759,919
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies