Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Production of Legitimacy in New Zealand Local Government Auditing

Working Paper No. 86

22 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2012

Philip Colquhoun

affiliation not provided to SSRN

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2011

Abstract

This paper expands our understanding of the introduction of new audit arrangements in the public sector by looking at three cases relating to the audit of local government. The first case saw the Audit Office replacing the elected auditors as the sole auditor of municipalities in 1886; the second case saw the Auditor-General fail to gain additional powers to control the financial management of local government; and the third case saw the introduction of operational audits in New Zealand local government. Following Power (2003, p.391), the paper illustrates how legitimacy was sought in these three cases by using the three stages of controversy, closure and credibility. All three stages can be separately identified in the two cases that succeed, with the failure point for the unsuccessful case being identified as the controversy stage. The use of Power (2003) is viewed as useful in accounting history and it avoids the use of terms associated with auditing, such as independence and objectivity, being used to evaluate auditing practice and arrangements.

Keywords: Accounting History, Public Sector, Local Government Auditing, New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Colquhoun, Philip, The Production of Legitimacy in New Zealand Local Government Auditing (December 2011). Working Paper No. 86, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2028701 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2028701
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
Audit Office (1981) Suggested Criteria for Good Management Practice in NZ Territorial Local Government Audit Office
Auditor-General Controller
1881) A Report on the Management, Accounts, and Audit of the Public Revenues in the several Colonies of New South Wales
Crossref
Auditor-General Controller
Reports of the Controller and Auditor-General. AJHR 1972 to 1979 B7 , p. 1972 - 79
Crossref
Auditor-General Controller
Report of the Controller and Auditor-General on Financial Management and Control in Administrative Government Departments Posted: 1978
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
850
RANK
299,879
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies