Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Risky Returns: Accounting for Risk in the Federal Budget

Indiana Law Journal, Forthcoming

NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-10

58 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2012 Last revised: 9 May 2012

David Kamin

New York University School of Law

Date Written: March 1, 2012

Abstract

There has been a growing consensus among academics, analysts, and policymakers that the official federal budget estimates should reflect the “cost of risk” — the amount that the private market would demand to bear risk. The result would be to add tens if not hundreds of billions of dollars in annual costs to the federal budget and, in combination with the budget enforcement laws now in place, make it much more difficult for the federal government to create or expand programs that involve risk — ranging from student lending to home mortgage guarantees to, potentially, broad social insurance programs like unemployment insurance. This article is the first academic analysis to reject this consensus and argue that including the “cost of risk” would improperly skew budget estimates. In addressing this issue, this article explores the purpose of budgeting and concludes that official budget measures are best used as a gauge of the federal government’s fiscal position and not as a means of capturing broader social effects. Including the “cost of risk” in the official budget estimates confuses cost-benefit analysis for budgeting and would generate incoherence in the official budget measures that would leave them doing little well at all.

Keywords: federal budget, risk, budget rules

Suggested Citation:

Kamin, David, Risky Returns: Accounting for Risk in the Federal Budget (March 1, 2012). Indiana Law Journal, Forthcoming, NYU Law and Economics Research Paper No. 12-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2039784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Risky Returns
Posted: 1990-12
For an overview of the Trust, see NATIONAL RAILROAD RETIREMENT INVESTMENT TRUST: ANNUAL MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR FISCAL Posted: 2011
Cong See
BUDGET OFFICE, supra note 103 , volume 22
Railroad Retirement and Survivors' Improvement Act of
107-90, § 105, 115 Stat , volume 878 , p. 882 - 87 Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,100
RANK
349,147
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

NYU Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies