Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Funding of Public Universities: A Case Study

The Journal of Academic Administration In Higher Education, Volume Seven, Issue 2, Fall 2011

4 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2012

Stephen G. Kerr

Bradley University

Date Written: June 30, 2011

Abstract

Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are often used to give feedback concerning a post-secondary institution's progress toward policy goals. In this sense, KPIs are used to create a sense of accountability. The Government of Alberta (Canada) implemented an accountability policy initiative in the early 1990s. One aspect of the policy was the creation of KPIs. The KPIs would be used to allocate funding to universities and colleges on the basis of their relative performance. After a number of years the Alberta Government abandoned performance funding and the KPI initiative. They could not resolve the many political and managerial problems arising from the quantification process. Recent moves by Arizona, Illinois, and other financially strapped States to implement performance funding create a rationale to re-examine the collapse of performance funding in Alberta. The case study approach preserves the policy initiative so that post-secondary stakeholders can reflect more deeply on the impact of KPIs. Alberta's case demonstrates that KPIs are a powerful policy tool to accelerate institutional responses to governmental policy. It is also important to carefully consider that KPIs might encourage managerial behaviour that results in negative unintended consequences.

Keywords: Key Performance Indicators, KPI, Alberta, performance funding, case study, post-secondary performance

JEL Classification: H52, I22

Suggested Citation:

Kerr, Stephen G., Performance Funding of Public Universities: A Case Study (June 30, 2011). The Journal of Academic Administration In Higher Education, Volume Seven, Issue 2, Fall 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2044044
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,332
RANK
564,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies