Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of Accrual Accounting System in Greek Public Hospitals: Assessing the Benefits

Posted: 25 Apr 2012

Filippos Stamatiadis

Technological Educational Institute (TEI) of Athens

Date Written: April 24, 2012

Abstract

During the last decades, several countries worldwide have introduced financial management reforms, as an important part of the New Public Management (NPM) initiative at one or more levels of government sector, by replacing or transforming their traditional budgetary cash accounting systems towards business-like accrual accounting concept. Following the example of the this upcoming managerial trend, the Greek government introduced in 1997 the accrual accounting in public hospitals, as the hospital sector is one of the areas where NPM reforms have been introduced in search of higher efficiency, effectiveness and economy in service production. The purpose of this paper is twofold. Our first goal is to provide an overview of the government sector reform initiatives in Greece and to present evidence regarding the implementation rate of the new accounting systems in the Greek public Health sector. The second goal of our research is to examine some of the factors influencing the perceived benefits of accrual-based accounting systems (ABAS) introduction in public hospitals.

Our analysis is based on the results of an empirical survey that took place during 2008. For the purposes of this survey, a structured questionnaire was prepared and sent to the Finance Managers of 132 Greek public hospitals.

The empirical evidence reveals that the governmental accounting reform diffusion in the Greek public Health sector is quite satisfactory for accrual basis financial accounting with an 83 percent adoption rate but not for the cost accounting, as only 18 percent of public hospitals examined have implemented such a system. Furthermore, it confirms that the perceived benefits from recent mandated accounting reform in public hospitals are influenced negatively from the implementation cost as well as from technical issues and organizational factors, (e.g. lack of accrual accounting expertise, lack of Top Management support, lack of IT and accounting staff resources adequacy etc), and positively from the education level of accounting department personnel. On the other hand, the hospital size and the learning experience effect do not seem to exhibit a significant influence on perceived accounting reform benefits.

Keywords: accrual accounting, public sector accounting, benefits, public hospitals, new public management

JEL Classification: M4, M48

Suggested Citation:

Stamatiadis, Filippos, The Adoption of Accrual Accounting System in Greek Public Hospitals: Assessing the Benefits (April 24, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2045442
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies