Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Stakeholder Orientation' and Capital Structure: Social Enterprises Versus For-Profit Firms in the Italian Social Residential Service Sector

Euricse Working Paper No. 33/12

13 Pages Posted: 16 May 2012

Alessandro Fedele

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano - Faculty of Economics and Management

Raffaele Miniaci

University of Brescia - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: May 10, 2012

Abstract

In this paper, we investigate whether capital structure differs between for-profit and nonprofit sectors by focusing on two key aspects of the latter: the non-distribution constraint and the stakeholder oriented governance system. We develop a theoretical model and show that the former negatively affects leverage, defined as the amount borrowed over the total investment, whilst the latter has a positive effect. We then analyze a longitudinal data set of balance sheets of 800 firms operating in the social residential sector in Italy and show that, once controlled for observable characteristics, for-profit companies have a leverage 18% higher than nonprofit enterprises, even if the latter face lower credit costs. We explain this finding by arguing that the effect of the non-distribution constraint prevails over the effect of stakeholder orientation.

Keywords: For-profit and nonprofit enterprises, Capital structure, Non-distribution constraint, stakeholder orientation

JEL Classification: A13, D21, D11, G32, C1

Suggested Citation:

Fedele, Alessandro and Miniaci, Raffaele, 'Stakeholder Orientation' and Capital Structure: Social Enterprises Versus For-Profit Firms in the Italian Social Residential Service Sector (May 10, 2012). Euricse Working Paper No. 33/12, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2055733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2055733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
R Blundell , S Bond
GMM Estimation with Persistent Panel Data: An Application to Production Functions
Econometric Review , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 340 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L Bonatti , C Borzaga , L Mittone
Profit Versus Non-profit firms in the Service Sector: An Analysis of the Employment and Welfare Implications
Rivista di Politica Economica , volume 95 , issue 3 , p. 137 - 164 Posted: 2005
Carlo Borzaga , Sara Depedri , Ermanno C. Tortia
The Growth of Organizational Variety in Market Economies: The Case of Social Enterprises
Euricse Working Papers No. 003/10 Pages: 23 Posted: 8 Jun 2010 Last revised: 11 Feb 2014
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kurt Richard Brekke , Luigi Siciliani , Odd Rune Straume , Odd Rune Straume
Quality Competition with Profit Constraints: Do Non-Profit Firms Provide Higher Quality than For-Profit Firms?
NHH Department of Economics Discussion Paper No. 2/2011 Pages: 42 Posted: 18 Feb 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
427,404
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Euricse Working Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies