Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Private Partnership: A Proposal for Value for Money Assessment in the Italian Context

Posted: 24 May 2012

Riccardo Tiscini

Universitas Mercatorum

Laura Martiniello

Universitas Mercatorum

Date Written: May 10, 2009

Abstract

This paper aims to identify the main issues related to the introduction of innovative accounting methodologies for public administrations to quantify value for money and support the evaluation process in the early stage of a Public Private Partnership (PPP).

In this paper we will first introduce the major changes occurring to Italian infrastructural market, then we will present the accounting methodologies used in some foreign countries. In particular the model called Public Sector Comparator (PSC) will be considered as a starting point to identify a proper Italian evaluation model taking into account the different Institutional and legal framework, Italian specificity and cultural problems. This model should provide the essential links between risk assessment, risk allocation and the optimal allocation of public resources.

We will also try to experimentally introduce the main concept at the base of this methodology in a Public owned Company “ANAS” to improve its ability to assess VFM in a motorway construction project.

Keywords: accounting, concession, public private partnership

Suggested Citation:

Tiscini, Riccardo and Martiniello, Laura, Public Private Partnership: A Proposal for Value for Money Assessment in the Italian Context (May 10, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2065294
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,106
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies