Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Monitoring Critically the State of the Art in Accounting for Concessions

International Journal of Economics and Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 4, 2011

13 Pages Posted: 28 Jun 2012 Last revised: 29 Jun 2012

Laura Martiniello

Universitas Mercatorum

Date Written: March 30, 2011

Abstract

This paper analyses, in a critical perspective, the evolution in accounting for ‘concession arrangements’. It is aimed to verify: if the new regulatory framework is sufficiently clear to allow a transparent and coherent accounting of such operations, which is its effect on public and private financial statements, which are the major problems encountered to its implementation including possible bias from external factors.

Keywords: accounting, concessions arrangements, public and private financial

JEL Classification: H10

Suggested Citation:

Martiniello, Laura, Monitoring Critically the State of the Art in Accounting for Concessions (March 30, 2011). International Journal of Economics and Accounting, Vol. 2, No. 4, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2070507
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
J Broadbent , C Haslam , R Laughlin
The Origin and Operation of PFI, available at www.ippr.org.uk. Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) (2005) Comment no Posted: 2001
SEC 95 Manual on Deficit and Debt Posted: 2002
Crossref
Endorsement of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
European Commission Posted: 2008
Crossref
Interpretation comment to IFRIC 12
European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG) Posted: 2005-05
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,000
RANK
524,740
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies