Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governmentality in Accounting and Accountability: A Case Study of Embedding Sustainability in a Supply Chain

Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2012 Last revised: 21 Aug 2012

Laura J. Spence

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Leonardo Rinaldi

University of London - Royal Holloway College

Date Written: April 19, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines how the introduction of sustainability accounting has been used by an organization as a means to seek to govern social, economic and environmental issues relating to suppliers. The concept of governmentality and four analytics of government are proposed as a means to examine systematic ways of exercising power and authority. This theoretical framework illuminates the specific rationales and practices of government that enable particular aspirations of reform - such as sustainability - to be constituted. The analysis is informed by the discussion of the implementation of sustainability-orientated regimes of practice in the context of a single supply chain within a major supermarket chain in the UK against the theoretical analytics of government. The paper provides novel empirical insights into how sustainability accounting shaped forms of power, rationales and practices in a supply chain. It explores the extent to which senior decision-takers frame and use sustainability accounting to foster disciplinary effects based ostensibly upon social and environmental goals. These are found in practice to be reformulated primarily according to an economic (rather than social or environmental) regime of practice.

Suggested Citation:

Spence, Laura J. and Rinaldi, Leonardo, Governmentality in Accounting and Accountability: A Case Study of Embedding Sustainability in a Supply Chain (April 19, 2012). Accounting, Organizations and Society, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2078934
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
142 References
The European Accounting Review and Accounting Forum) over the period 1990-2010. The review revealed that governmentality was effectively mobilized in only 30 publications
This argument was shaped by a review of 6 influential accounting journals (Accounting Posted: 1994
Everett
Posted: 2007
&amp; Jeacle , Walsh
Posted: 1987
; Lohmann , Mckinlay
Mahama & Ming Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
236
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,787
RANK
296,145
6 Citations
142 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies