Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pressure to Manage Ratios in Not-For-Profit Organizations: Evidence from Charity Managers

34 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2012 Last revised: 20 Jun 2014

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Charlotte Pryor

University of Southern Maine - School of Business

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: April 6, 2014

Abstract

This study surveys 200 nonprofit executives to investigate the pressure they experience to manage so-called efficiency ratios. Specifically, we investigate whether managers’ perceptions of such pressure depends on the type of contributors and on manager characteristics. We measure pressure in two ways: 1) directly through responses to survey questions that ask about perceived pressure, and 2) indirectly through responses to survey questions that ask about specific actions that management would take to report favorable ratios. We assume that if managers are willing to engage in ratio management (either through financial reporting or spending choices), then there is an inherent pressure to do so. We find that pressure to report favorable ratios is mediated by donor type, especially contributors who provide restricted resources or rely on watchdog organizations (e.g. Charity Navigator). We also find that managers are more likely to perceive pressure to report favorable ratios to appeal to potential (rather than existing) donors. On the other hand, manager sophistication is negatively associated with pressure to manage ratios.

Keywords: nonprofit, charity, earnings management, ratio management

JEL Classification: M4, Ll3

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Linda M. and Pryor, Charlotte and Alston Roberts, Andrea, Pressure to Manage Ratios in Not-For-Profit Organizations: Evidence from Charity Managers (April 6, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2079304 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2079304
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Bhattacharya , D Tinkelman
How tough are Better Business Bureau/Wise Giving Alliance standards? Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 2009
S R Buchheit , L M Parsons
An experimental investigation of accounting information's influence on the individual giving process
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 6 , p. 666 - 686 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Burnett
Relationship Fundraising Posted: 1992
Load more
2 Citations
Steven Balsam , Erica E. Harris
The Impact of CEO Compensation on Nonprofit Donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Ali R. Almutairi
Earnings management and the role of MOSAL in co-ops
Journal of Co-operative Organization and Management , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 100131 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,274
RANK
102,351
2 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

By Christine Petrovits, Catherine Shakespeare, ...

Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

By Gregory D. Saxton, Daniel Neely, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies