Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
DCAA — Is Anyone Home?

Government Contract Costs, Pricing & Accounting Report, Vol. 7, Issue 3, May 2012, pp. 1-6

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper

6 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2012

Richard C. Loeb

University of Baltimore - School of Law

Date Written: May 1, 2012

Abstract

This article examines the performance of the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an important component of the Department of Defense responsible for examining over $250 billion a year in government contracts. The article reviews recent changes in the agency's programs which have made it less effective in rooting out contractor mischarges and overpricing, and resulting in an audit backlog that will soon approach $1 trillion. The article proposes reforms that will return the agency to its core mission of auditing contractor proposed prices and incurred costs on large defense-related contracts.

Keywords: General Accounting Office, GAO, audits, auditing, costs, DCAA, Defense Contract Audit Agency, peer reviews, working paper documentation, government contracts, government contractors, backlogs, National Defense Authorization Act, cost accounting standards

JEL Classification: H56, K12, K19, K29, K39

Suggested Citation:

Loeb, Richard C., DCAA — Is Anyone Home? (May 1, 2012). Government Contract Costs, Pricing & Accounting Report, Vol. 7, Issue 3, May 2012, pp. 1-6, University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2084342
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Gao Report , Audits
Allegations that Certain Audits at Three Locations Did Not Meet Professional Standards Were Substantiated (GAO-08-857); and GAO report
DCAA Audits: Widespread Problems with Audit Quality Require Substantial Reform
The number of audit reports and dollars examined come from the Department of Defense inspector general semiannual report to Congress, Appendix D, Contract Audit Reports Issued. The FY 2008 data comes from the semiannual reports for
The FY 2011 data comes from the semiannual reports for Posted: 2007-10-01
Ibid
Crossref
Testimony of DCAA Director to Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs hearing titled Defense Contract Audit Agency: Who is Responsible for Reform? Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
194
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,725
RANK
357,528
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Baltimore School of Law Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies