Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Physical to Accounting Control: A Study of Accounting Change Resistance

Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 228-242, 2009

Posted: 1 Nov 2012 Last revised: 21 Aug 2013

Imam Wahyudi

Asian Banking-Finance & Informatics Institute of Perbanas

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine an effort by management of a private higher education institution in Indonesia to replace its informal, relationship-based performance system which relied on physical discourse – overseeing operational details that focus on physical accomplishment of tasks – and personal control by the school head, with a tight budgetary control system which relied on technical efficiency and rational discourse.

Design/methodology/approach – The paper is an ethnographic case study of a business school – a private higher education institution in Indonesia – known by its abbreviation as Perbanas Business School (PBS), from 1999 to 2001. The researcher is part of the case being studied, and thus is a 'native' who completely participates in the change process.

Findings – The paper demonstrates how a control system change that violates existing cultural norms fails to impact day-to-day managerial practices or decision-making processes. Specifically, in a business school setting, replacing an informal relationship-based control system with a technical efficiency-based accounting control system only produces chaotic managerial practices and degrades school services. The new system alienates staff and is not accepted or institutionalized. Instead, in daily managerial processes, management continue to rely on informal and personal relationships.

Research limitations/implications – The paper contributes to the accounting literature by studying the process of instituting accounting change and organizational participants’ resistance to that change.

Originality/value – Organizational culture, reflected in values, norms of behavior and everyday practices, cannot easily be controlled or changed by chief executive officers.

Keywords: accounting, budgetary control, higher education, Indonesia

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Wahyudi, Imam, From Physical to Accounting Control: A Study of Accounting Change Resistance (2009). Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change, Vol. 5, No. 2, pp. 228-242, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2089300
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
726
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies