Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Concessions: An Empirical Analysis of Financial Statements of Italian Listed Companies

25 Pages Posted: 29 Jun 2012 Last revised: 16 Oct 2013

Riccardo Tiscini

Universitas Mercatorum

Laura Martiniello

Universitas Mercatorum

Date Written: May 2, 2012

Abstract

This paper analyses the relation between regulation, accountability and accounting of concession contracts in three major sectors: motorways, utilities and energy. Firstly it identifies major problems in the accounting rules for concession contracts also analysing how political forces are influencing the level of accountability and disclosure of such operations in private and public financial statements. Secondly it verifies, through a desk analysis of financial statements of concessionaires, how accounting practices are evolving, which variable affect the accounting choices and if the new accounting framework, in use since 2010, ensures a sufficient level of accountability of financial statements to all stakeholders. Overall, it tries to draw some general lessons to improve the accountability of concessions worldwide.

Keywords: concessions, accountability

Suggested Citation:

Tiscini, Riccardo and Martiniello, Laura, Accounting for Concessions: An Empirical Analysis of Financial Statements of Italian Listed Companies (May 2, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2095198 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2095198
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
J B Acerete
The cost of using private finance for roads in Spain and the UK
Australian Journal of Public administration , volume 69 Posted: 2010
Crossref
A Ball
Discovery its own relevance? Reflection on the new management accounting in the public sector
Accounting forum , volume 25 , p. 292 - 299 Posted: 2001
Crossref
W W Bratton
Private standards, public governance: A new look at the Financial Accounting Standards Board
BCL Rev Posted: 2007
J Broadbent
Evaluation the private finance initiative in the national health service
Accounting Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 13 , issue 3 , p. 422 - 445 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,933
RANK
371,877
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies