Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Management Accounting Departments within German Municipal Administrations

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

37 Pages Posted: 6 Jul 2012 Last revised: 27 Oct 2013

Bernhard Hirsch

Bundeswehr University Munich

Christian Nitzl

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Joachim Schauß

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Date Written: March 25, 2013

Abstract

The achievement of better performance from municipal administrations is an ongoing challenge. We use the contingency theory perspective, which concentrates on the specific environmental settings of organisations, to examine the influence of management accounting departments within German municipal administrations. Our findings indicate that as the size of municipalities increases, the level of their administrative performance decreases. We additionally show that this negative effect can be mitigated when management accounting is seen as being highly relevant and when the management accounting department performs well. Furthermore, a comparison of the accounting systems (cash versus accrual accounting) used in municipal administrations reveals that a successful working management accounting department can only exert a positive effect when the municipal administration acts under an accrual accounting regime.

Keywords: municipals, controlling departments, performance, accrual accounting, partial least square

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Hirsch, Bernhard and Nitzl, Christian and Schauß, Joachim, The Influence of Management Accounting Departments within German Municipal Administrations (March 25, 2013). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2101139 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2101139
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
110 References
K Ailawadi , R Dant , D Grewal
The Difference between Perceptual and Objective Performance Measures. An Empirical Analysis
MSI Working Paper Series , p. 77 - 101 Posted: 2004
E Anessi-Pessina , G Nasi , I Steccolini
Accounting Reforms: Determinants of Local Governments' Choices
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 321 - 342 Posted: 2008
Crossref
J Armstrong , T Overton
Estimating Nonresponse Bias in Mail Survey
Journal of Marketing Research , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 396 - 402 Posted: 1977
Crossref
J Barney
Resource-Based Theories of Competitive Advantage: A ten year Retroperspective on the Resource-Based View
Journal of Management , volume 27 , issue 6 , p. 643 - 650 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,087
RANK
371,877
110 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

New Public Management's Current Issues and Future Prospects

By Tom Groot and Tjerk Budding

Accountability of Health Service Purchasers: Comparing Internal Markets and Managed Competition Reform Models

By Colleen M. Flood

The Impact of the New Public Management: Challenges for Coordination and Cohesion in European Public Sectors (Review Essay)

By Steven Van De Walle and Gerhard Hammerschmid

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies