Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Property Tax Revenue and the Quality of Government Services: A County-Level Analysis

2012 AAA Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions

Posted: 18 Jul 2012 Last revised: 20 Jul 2012

Teresa Lightner

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Bing Luo

University of North Texas

Robert C. Ricketts

Texas Tech University

Mark Riley

Northern Illinois University

Date Written: July 18, 2012

Abstract

We examine all 159 counties within the state of Georgia to determine the impact of per capita personal and business property taxes collected on the Economy, Education, Health, and Public Safety of each county. We find a strong positive association between per capita residential property tax collections and the overall quality of services provided by county governments. Alternatively, we find that higher sales tax rates and higher business property tax collections per capita are associated with significantly lower measurements of the quality of county government services. We perform additional analyses to determine that the assessed values of residential and business property, rather than the property tax rate, is driving the relationship between quality of government services and property tax collections. We also find interesting results when we examine the impact of property tax collections on each of the individual factors (Economy, Education, Health, and Public Safety) of a county.

Suggested Citation:

Lightner, Teresa and Luo, Bing and Ricketts, Robert C. and Riley, Mark, Property Tax Revenue and the Quality of Government Services: A County-Level Analysis (July 18, 2012). 2012 AAA Annual Meeting - Tax Concurrent Sessions , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2112382 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2112382
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,453
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies