Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do governments hide resources from unions? The influence of public sector unions on reported discretionary fund balance ratios

51 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2012 Last revised: 3 May 2023

Angela K. Gore

George Washington University

Yuan Ji

The University of Texas at Arlington

Susan Cohen Kulp

George Washington University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: April 30, 2023

Abstract

We explore whether municipalities with public sector unions exploit aspects of governmental (or “fund”) accounting to obscure the availability of discretionary resources in fund balance accounts, relative to municipalities without public sector unions. We first investigate whether governments with unions report higher proportions of discretionary resources outside of the general fund, a primary measure of financial health, and instead within less prominent fund types. Second, we explore whether governments with unions report lower ratios within accessible general fund balance account categories – that is, report lower proportions of unreserved fund balance. Primary findings are consistent with both hypotheses. Although somewhat mixed, cross-sectional analyses reveal that effects are magnified when unions have more bargaining power, as proxied by the ability to strike or the absence of state right-to-work laws. Further analysis corroborates cross-sectional findings by examining difference-in-differences specifications surrounding the quasi-exogenous shock of Wisconsin’s 2011 weakening of state public sector union laws and Ohio’s time-varying union contract negotiations. Overall, the evidence suggests that governments with unions shelter resources to avoid the appearance of large discretionary amounts available.

Keywords: union; right to work; accounting manipulation; fund balance; local government

JEL Classification: H83, K31, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gore, Angela K. and Ji, Yuan and Kulp, Susan, Do governments hide resources from unions? The influence of public sector unions on reported discretionary fund balance ratios (April 30, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2127755 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2127755
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Knowing the numbers: analyzing public budgets. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees leadership academy online workshop
American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Posted: 2006
R Anthony
Games government accountants play
Harvard Business Review Posted: 1985-09
W Baber , A Gore
Consequences of GAAP disclosure regulation: Evidence from municipal debt issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 565 - 591 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W Baber , A Gore , K Rich , J Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance, and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
347
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,256
RANK
197,664
8 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

By Reining Petacchi, Nolan Kido, ...

Discussion of the Influence of Elections on the Accounting Choices of Governmental Entities

By Laurence Van Lent

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies