Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Needed: Better Accounting Concepts

Posted: 10 Mar 2000

Robert N. Anthony

Harvard Business School

Abstract

Money can flow accurately everywhere because the words used in transactions ? from a deposit in a local bank to settling a debt in a far-off country ? have precise meanings. But accounting, the language of business, does not have an accepted vocabulary. This is sorely needed, both for business and non-business accounting. The new millennium is a good time to take stock.

There is a tendency to assume that the American standards boards provide good guidance in developing the accounting language. We have four sets of standards. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) establishes accounting standards for businesses, as well as for nonprofit organisations. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) establishes standards for state and local governments. The Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) establishes standards for the federal government. Unfortunately, each of these standards has serious defects.

JEL Classification: M41, M44

Suggested Citation:

Anthony, Robert N., Needed: Better Accounting Concepts. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=212872
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,926
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies