Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Opening the Door to Accounting Change: Transformations in Chinese Public Sector Accounting

30 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2012

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University - School of Business

Luca Zan

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: August 21, 2012

Abstract

Accounting in China in the last 30 years has changed deeply, in connection with one of the most astonishing process of economic development in the world. Most researchers focus their attention to business accounting, with attention to further needs for change in the future. This article takes a different perspective. First we are interested in public sector accounting: though the State is reducing its sphere of activity, some part of “public service” will persist. How (public sector) accounting is involved in the process of modernization of the State bureaucracy is our main research focus. Second, more than investigating future possible changes, this paper takes a historical viewpoint: we try to understand and make sense of the changes in accounting regulation for public sector as it occurred in the last decades. Identifying various streams of regulation and waves of documents over time, we will identify four main phases of continuity and change in which the post Open Door period can be structured: restoration, revision, innovation and maintenance.

Keywords: Accounting history, public sector accounting, Chinese accounting reforms, Open Door policy

JEL Classification: D73, M4, N45, P41

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Qingmei and Zan, Luca, Opening the Door to Accounting Change: Transformations in Chinese Public Sector Accounting (August 21, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2133311 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2133311
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
80 References
R W Bahl , J Martinez-Vazquez
Fiscal federalism and economic reform in China. International Studies Program series at AYSPS, GSU Paper 0313 Posted: 2003
J P Burns
Chinese civil service reform: the 13th Party Congress proposals
The China Quarterly , volume 120 , p. 739 - 70 Posted: 1989
Crossref
J L Caulfield
Local government reform in China: a rational actor perspective
International Review of Administrative Sciences , volume 72 , issue 2 , p. 253 - 267 Posted: 2006
Crossref
H S Chan
Downsizing the central government: the case of the People's Republic of China , volume 2 , p. 305 - 335 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
223
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,769
RANK
312,985
80 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies