Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Regimes, Regulatory Change and Corporate Income Tax Aggressiveness in China

25th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2012

44 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2012 Last revised: 23 Jan 2013

Guodong Yuan

University of South Australia - School of Commerce

Ron McIver

Centre for Markets, Values and Inclusion (MVI), University of South Australia - UniSA Business

Michael Burrow

University of South Australia - Division of Business and Enterprise - (CAFS), University of South Australia - School of Commerce

Date Written: August 27, 2012

Abstract

This study uses the ‘natural experiment’ provided by China’s implementation of its 2007 Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No.18 — Corporate Income Tax Accounting and 2008 Enterprise Income Tax Law to address two questions. Have China’s tax regulatory environment changes had an impact on the corporate tax avoidance of its listed companies? Does ownership structure — i.e., state-controlled, private or foreign-invested — impact on companies’ responses to regulatory change? Drawing on effective tax planning, agency, tax avoidance and legitimacy theories, this study uses a balanced panel-data sample for the 2007 to 2010 period on 1,224 companies listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges. We find that tax avoidance by listed companies, measured by the book-tax gap, has reduced as a result of regulatory reform. Additionally we tentatively support the influence of ownership/control on corporate tax avoidance in China, with state-controlled companies evidencing lower levels of the book tax gap.

Keywords: China, corporate income tax aggressiveness, regulatory environment change, ownership impact, transition economy

JEL Classification: G38, H26, P37

Suggested Citation:

Yuan, Guodong and McIver, Ronald and Burrow, Michael, Tax Regimes, Regulatory Change and Corporate Income Tax Aggressiveness in China (August 27, 2012). 25th Australasian Finance and Banking Conference 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2136777 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2136777
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
Y G Shan
Corporate disclosures of related-party relationships and transactions in China: agency, governance, legitimacy and signalling influences Posted: 2009
T Shevlin
Corporate tax shelters and book-tax differences
Tax L. Rev , volume 55 Posted: 2001
J B Slemrod
The economics of corporate tax selfishness
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2004
Crossref
Y Wang
The Sensitivity Analysis of the Changes of China's Corporate Income Tax Rate for Listed Companies Economy Research , p. 74 - 80 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
315
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,893
RANK
219,770
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies