Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Reporting Systems in the Public Administrations in Europe vis-a-vis the IPSAS’ Conceptual Framework Issue: Traditional Systems

20 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2012

Francesca Manes Rossi

Università Degli Studi di Salerno - Department of Management Research

Natalia Aversano

University of Salerno

Johan Christiaens

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Date Written: July 30, 2012

Abstract

Important reforms in accounting and reporting systems of Public Administrations have occurred on the international scenario in the last twenty years, coupled with a tension towards international harmonization and the application of international accounting standards specifically for the Public sector. Many studies and research efforts have been dedicated to this strand (Brusca and Condor, 2002; Bossert, 2005; Anessi-Pessina and Steccolini, 2007, Benito et al. 2007; Christiaens and Reyniers 2010; Groot and Budding, 2008) because the application of the same principles for preparing report could increased the comparability and could increase the possibility of a real consolidation as well as the accountability towards different stakeholders.

In the last years a strong political and cultural orientation toward the harmonization of financial reporting within all kinds of public administration across different countries or institutional levels, according to the business model, has arisen. Accounting standards issued by IPSASB are the result of this tendency. Despite this main trend of converging accounting systems toward financial reporting inspired by the accrual model, timing and mode that each country is following differ significantly, leading to diverging practices. Moreover, full accrual accounting reforms – faraway from cash-basis accounting – has provoked different and sometimes opposite reactions among scholars (Anessi Pessina, 2005; Zambon, 2006).

The current research belongs to the vein of comparative international studies (Jones, 2007) and aims, in an international accounting approach (Choi-Muller, 1992; Viganò, 1990), to analyse changes in the international scenario, in order to examine the concrete consequences of an important IPSAS’ Conceptual Framework issue, i.e. imbedded traditional systems in European countries and the ability to increase the level of accountability.

As matter of fact, in a first stage the IPSAS has been characterized by a tendency to converge with IAS/IFRS standards, to the point of referring to the IASB’s Conceptual Framework. However, because of the different nature and objective of the reporting prepared by a public administration, the board has opted for the preparation of a specific framework: a long-term project had been launched in order to develop a conceptual framework for the preparation and the presentation of a general purpose financial report for entities belonging to the public sector (IPSASB 2006, p. 3). An important issue that underlies this framework is the occurrence of traditional probably different contexts of countries / jurisdictions, whereby these differences indicate implementation difficulties.

According with the main objective, the research is developed in the endeavor to reach three targets: 1. To analyse the state of the art and the presence of a common path in the evolution of international accounting standards in some European countries; 2. To investigate the level of accounting harmonization within the countries observed and the adoption of IPSASs already occurred; 3. To analyse which determinants, in each country, have an impact on the current configuration of the accounting system and the reporting model and, consequently, to investigate the compatibility with the IPSAS’ Conceptual Framework.

Methodologically, the analysis and comparison of accounting standards in the same number of countries belonging to Nordic and Anglo-Saxon tradition (UK, Germany, Sweden) and Continental tradition (France, Italy and Spain) has been carried out and accounting laws and national standard have been examined (Pina et. al, 2009). Moving from the idea that historical, cultural and social context can influence stakeholders’ information needs (Lüder, 2002; Benito et. Al, 2007; Brusca & Condor, 2002; Pina et al., 2009) single countries have been analysed and compared looking at their traditional existing systems, which could influence the adoption of the IPSAS’ Framework.

In a second step, the accounting system of each country has been analysed, considering different institutional levels (State, Regions, Local Governments), in order to investigate the level of internal harmonization and to understand the key-factors that have contributed to the state of the art, according with Lüder’s model (Lüder and Jones, 2003). Results show an higher heterogeneity in national accounting systems and standards within the European countries analysed. The situation requires the adoption of international standards in European countries in order to facilitate comparability; on the other hand, it highlights how difficult it is to apply the IPSAS’ Framework in the European context, especially in those countries in which there is a lack of internal harmonization. In this prospective, the paper aims to underline the key-factors that can facilitated the process.

Keywords: IPSASs, Harmonization, Accrual, Information need

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Manes Rossi, Francesca and Aversano, Natalia and Christiaens, Johan, Accounting and Reporting Systems in the Public Administrations in Europe vis-a-vis the IPSAS’ Conceptual Framework Issue: Traditional Systems (July 30, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2150852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2150852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
113 References
B Adam , R Mussari , R Jones
The diversity of accrual policies in local government financial reporting: an examination of infrastructure, art and heritage assets in Germany
Italy and the UK. Financial Accountability & Management , volume 27 , p. 107 - 133 Posted: 2011
Crossref
P Adhémar
The modernization of government accounting in France: the current situation, the issues, the outlook, fonte IFAC Posted: 2003
Anessi Pessina , E
La contabilità economico -patrimoniale nelle aziende pubbliche: dal 'se' al 'come Posted: 2005
L Anselmi , Giuffrè , Milano , R Baker , E Barbu
Modelli economico patrimoniali per il bilancio e la contabilità di Stato
Trends in research on international accounting harmonization , volume 42 , p. 272 - 304 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
916
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,141
RANK
59,129
113 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies