Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Consequences of State Balanced Budget Restrictions: Fiscal Constraints or Accounting Manipulations?

44 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2012 Last revised: 13 Aug 2014

Anna M. Costello

University of Michigan, Stephen M. Ross School of Business

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Joseph Weber

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Date Written: August 12, 2014

Abstract

Although balanced budgets are widely used throughout the world, there is considerable debate on whether they are effective. Poterba (1997) provides two theories on the effectiveness of balanced budget restrictions. The institutional irrelevance view suggests that balanced budget rules are ineffective, as governments can circumvent budget rules through accounting manipulations. Alternatively, the public choice view argues that balanced budgets represent important constraints on political actors. In this paper we provide evidence on these contrasting theories by investigating the extent to which states cut expenditures and/or raise taxes to meet the budget or whether they use accounting gimmicks to comply with budget requirements. Our evidence is consistent with both theories; we find that when facing fiscal problems, states use a combination of expenditure cuts and accounting gimmicks like inter-fund transfers and selling assets to meet the budget. A $100 per capita deficit induces states with strong anti-deficit rules to transfer $20 into the governmental funds, to sell $6.10 public assets, and to reduce expenditures by $48.40. We find that the fiscal response to deficits varies based on the size of the deficit; states react to small deficits by increasing taxes and cutting expenditures, and states respond to large deficits using a combination of tax increases, expenditure cuts, and asset sales. Jointly, our results suggest that balanced budget restrictions do provide constraints on political actors, but they also result in the use of accounting gimmicks like fund sweeps and asset sales.

Suggested Citation:

Costello, Anna M. and Petacchi, Reining and Weber, Joseph Peter, Consequences of State Balanced Budget Restrictions: Fiscal Constraints or Accounting Manipulations? (August 12, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2151598 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2151598
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
James E Alt , Robert C Lowry
Dividend government, fiscal institutions, and budget deficits: Evidence from the states
American Political Science Review , volume 88 , p. 811 - 828 Posted: 1994
Crossref
S Becker , D Green
Budgeting and Employee Behavior
The Journal of Business , volume 35 , p. 392 - 402 Posted: 1962
Crossref
H Bohn , R P Inman
Balanced-budget rules and public deficits: evidence from the U.S. States
Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series on Public Policy , volume 45 , p. 13 - 76 Posted: 1996
Crossref
J Bouwens , P Kroos
Target ratcheting and effort reduction
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 51 , p. 171 - 185 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
395
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,621
RANK
171,101
4 Citations
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Prices, Business Fluctuations, & Cycles eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Fiscal Policy and Monetary Integration in Europe

By Jordi Galí and Roberto Perotti

Fiscal Policy and Monetary Integration in Europe

By Jordi Galí and Roberto Perotti

Revisiting the Stability and Growth Pact: Grand Design or Internal Adjustment?

By Marco Buti, Sylvester C. W. Eijffinger, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies