Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Imperfect Match of Public Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises and Private-Sector-Type Financial Reporting: The Case of Italy

Capalbo, Francesco and Palumbo, Riccardo, The Imperfect Match of Public Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises and Private-Sector-Type Financial Reporting: The Case of Italy, Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 7(4), 2013, 37-50.

16 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2012 Last revised: 10 Jan 2014

Francesco Capalbo

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics; Seconda Universita degli Studi di Napoli

Riccardo Palumbo

University of Chieti-Pescara; European Capital Markets CRC

Date Written: September 28, 2012

Abstract

State-owned enterprises (SOEs) are legally private entities used in many jurisdictions to satisfy public needs, mostly through extensive consumption of public funds. While the nature of purposes pursued and of resources employed affects their accountability in a public sense, their financial reporting requirements are set on the basis of their legal form and this may end up generating a misalignment between accountability and reporting. Such a misalignment significantly impairs the effectiveness of financial reporting and limits the relevant public authorities’ ability to control. The case of Italian SOEs is a fine example. These were created as incorporated entities fully or partially owned by local governments willing to dislocate the production of public services, especially utilities. Such companies have benefitted, thanks to the chosen legal form, from a private style financial reporting model that has significantly eased the controls normally existing on public administrations, and which has favoured massive misuse of public funds and largely illegal management conducts. This paper advocates for significant amendments to the financial reporting model they inherit from the legal form, in order to realign their private-style accounting obligations with their public-style accountability.

Keywords: State-owned enterprises, Accountability, Reporting, Statement of Corporate Intent

Suggested Citation:

Capalbo, Francesco and Palumbo, Riccardo, The Imperfect Match of Public Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises and Private-Sector-Type Financial Reporting: The Case of Italy (September 28, 2012). Capalbo, Francesco and Palumbo, Riccardo, The Imperfect Match of Public Accountability of State-Owned Enterprises and Private-Sector-Type Financial Reporting: The Case of Italy, Australasian Accounting Business and Finance Journal, 7(4), 2013, 37-50. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2153899 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2153899
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. IASB/FASB
E Borgonovi , Milan Egea
Principi e sistemi aziendali per le amministrazioni pubbliche Posted: 2005
M Bovens
Public Accountability Posted: 2007
Crossref
R A Brealey , Cooper Ia , Ma
Investment appraisal in the public sector
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 12 - 28 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Paul Rose
Sovereign Wealth Funds and Domestic Political Risk
Oxford University Press Handbook on Sovereign Wealth Funds (2017), Ohio State Public Law Working Paper No. 312 · 39 Pages · Posted: 13 Oct 2015 · Last revised: 5 Apr 2021 · Downloads: 347
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,723
RANK
345,859
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies