Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Informative Role of Accounting Standards in Privatizing State-Owned Property: Comparing Greek Governmental Accounting Standards and IPSAS

Global Business and Economics Review, Vol. 17, No. 1, pp. 51-62, 2015

Posted: 13 Oct 2012 Last revised: 27 Nov 2014

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Georgios (George) Venieris

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: October 12, 2012

Abstract

This paper examines the suitability of different accounting bases in providing useful information to support privatization decisions of state-owned property. More specifically, a comparison is conducted between the recently adopted Greek Governmental Accounting Standards (GGAS) that follow a modified cash basis and accrual-based IPSAS with reference to state-owned property. Within this realm, the study tries to shed light on how accounting could assist governments in better informing their decision-making processes. The findings suggest that even though GGAS seem to be influenced in several cases by IFRS, and therefore present similarities with IPSAS, they do not sufficiently account for information relevant to privatization decisions under the idiosyncratic circumstances that govern state-owned property in Greece. Nevertheless, although IPSAS appear to be significantly more informative, an information gap is recognized in the case of state-owned assets registration regarding assets that face considerable legal shortcomings that relate to violations or claims by third parties.

Keywords: privatization, IPSAS, modified cash basis, Greece, state-owned assets

JEL Classification: H70, H82, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Venieris, Georgios (George), The Informative Role of Accounting Standards in Privatizing State-Owned Property: Comparing Greek Governmental Accounting Standards and IPSAS (October 12, 2012). Global Business and Economics Review, Vol. 17, No. 1, pp. 51-62, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2160645 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2160645
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,976
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies