Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Practices of Charity Organisations: A Malaysian Evidence

International Bulletin of Business Administration, ISSN: 1451-243X Issue 6 (2009), © EuroJournals, Inc. 2009

9 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2012

Noraini Mohd Nasir

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Radiah Othman

Massey University

Jamaliah Said

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Erlane Ghani

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Date Written: October 14, 2012

Abstract

Using content analysis and interview setting, this study examines the current state of financial reporting of charity organisations in Malaysia. Specifically, this study examines the major issues and problems faced by these organisations in preparing their financial reports. Annual reports of 32 charity organisations were reviewed and the results show that there is a varying degree of reporting practices among them. The results show that although all charity organisations submitted their balance sheets to the Registrar of Society, only 60% of these organisations presented a cash flow statement and only 59% had their financial reports audited by external auditors. Further investigations indicate that there are problems faced by these organisations in preparing the reports such as lack of skilled accounting staff and high staff turnover. The findings of this study provide some understanding to the relevant authorities and the organisations themselves to overcome the problems related to the non-submission of annual reports as required by the Registrar of Society.

Keywords: charity organisations, financial reporting, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Mohd Nasir, Noraini and Othman, Radiah and Said, Jamaliah and Ghani, Erlane, Financial Reporting Practices of Charity Organisations: A Malaysian Evidence (October 14, 2012). International Bulletin of Business Administration, ISSN: 1451-243X Issue 6 (2009), © EuroJournals, Inc. 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2161692
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
N Alvey
From Chantry to Oxfam: a short history of charity and charity legislation Posted: 1995
J K Ashford
Posted: 1991
R Bekkers
Trust, accreditation and philanthropy in the Netherlands
The 31st Arnova Conference Posted: 2002-11
Crossref
Bernama
Majority of bodies not submitting annual report to registrar Posted: 2001-04-21
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,661
RANK
143,068
1 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies