Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgetary Participation: How it Affects Performance and Commitment

Accountancy Business and the Public Interest 2012

21 Pages Posted: 15 Oct 2012

Ida Haryanti Mohd Noor

Universiti Teknologi Mara

Radiah Othman

Massey University

Date Written: October 14, 2012

Abstract

The Malaysian public sector has undergone a number of reforms in the past two decades. They have focused on decentralization to improve performance and participative decision-making. A Modified Budgeting System (MBS) was adopted to encourage more participation from employees. Previous researchers report that budgetary participation can lead to certain behaviours such as employees’ positive attitude and performance. This study examines the role of organizational commitment and budgetary participation on managerial performance. We distributed questionnaires to middle level managers involved in the budget process of a government ministry to identify their budgetary participation level and the impact on managerial performance. The findings reveal that budgetary participation has a significant effect on managerial performance by enhancing organizational commitment. Overall, the study findings provide a better understanding of the effects of budgetary participation in the public sector, allowing governments to improve organizational commitment among employees and refine budgetary processes so more employees can participate. Most of the studies on budgetary participation has been conducted in the private sector rather than the public sector even in developing countries. This study attempts to fill up the gap. In addition, this study relies on participative decision-making approach to examine the relationship between budgetary participation and managerial performance.

Keywords: Budget, Participation, Performance, Public Sector, Government

Suggested Citation:

Mohd Noor, Ida Haryanti and Othman, Radiah, Budgetary Participation: How it Affects Performance and Commitment (October 14, 2012). Accountancy Business and the Public Interest 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2161688
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
N J Allen , J P Meyer
The measurement and antecedents of affective, continuance and normative commitment to the organization
Journal of Occupational Psychology , volume 63 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1990
Crossref
T J Archdeacon
Correlation and regression analysis: A historian's guide (1st Posted: 1994
N A H K Awamleh
Organizational commitment of civil service managers in Jordan: A field study
Journal of Management Development , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 65 - 74 Posted: 1996
Crossref
R M Baron , D A Kenny
The moderator-mediator variable distinction in social psychological research: Conceptual, strategic and statistical considerations
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , p. 1173 - 1182 Posted: 1986
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,011
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,448
RANK
51,588
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies