Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting Disclosure: Evidence from Malaysian Non Profit Organizations

British Journal of Economics, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 2, 2012

15 Pages Posted: 16 Oct 2012

Norli Ali

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Jamaliah Said

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Normah Omar

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM)

Rashidah Abdul Rahman

Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) - Bureau of Research and Consultancy (BRC)

Radiah Othman

Massey University

Date Written: October 15, 2012

Abstract

This study examines the current state of financial reporting disclosure practices by 60 non-profit organisations that have registered under the Companies Commission of Malaysia (CCM). Subsequently, this study examined the factors influencing the non-profit organisations on their level of financial reporting disclosure. The results show that all non-profit organisations that submitted their annual reports for financial year ended 2010 prepared the Statement of Income and Expenditure, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement although the level of financial reporting disclosure differs. The results also show that total revenues and total assets influencing the level of disclosure. Non-profits organization with high total assets and total revenue tends to disclosed more details items in the Income and Expenditure and Balance Sheet Account. This study provides initial understanding of the state of financial reporting practices that reflects the transparency and accountability practices among non-profit organisations in Malaysia.

Keywords: Financial terrorism, non-profit organisations, financial reporting disclosure, Malaysia

Suggested Citation:

Ali, Norli and Said, Jamaliah and Omar, Normah and Rahman, Rashidah Abdul and Othman, Radiah, Financial Reporting Disclosure: Evidence from Malaysian Non Profit Organizations (October 15, 2012). British Journal of Economics, Finance and Management Sciences, Vol. 4, No. 2, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2162188
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
 Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering Annual Report Posted: 2007
Crossref
N  Alvey
From Chantry to Oxfam: a Short History of Charity and Charity Legislation Posted: 1995
B Behn
Devries , J Lin
Voluntary Disclosure in Non-profit Organisations: an Exploratory Study
Working Paper Series Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
382
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,362
RANK
177,685
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

NGO & Non-Profit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies