Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Local and Regional Taxes on Tourism

Tourism in South East Europe, 2011

Sustainable Tourism: Socio-Cultural, Environmental and Economics Impact, pp. 305-314, 2011

10 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2012

Dragan Roller

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Tourism & Hospitality Management

Sabina Hodzic

University of Rijeka - Faculty of Tourism & Hospitality Management

Date Written: September 5, 2011

Abstract

Successful development of tourism requires substantial investments in construction and modernization of tourist destination. Countries with developed tourism must harmonize the tourism development strategy with the fiscal policy. Local and regional taxes play an important role in the development of economic activities. Precisely these two types of taxes are the main source for the local self-government's revenue. The government should use revenues from local and regional taxes to enrich tourist offer of a certain tourist destination. Positive fiscal policy measures affect more successful development of tourism. A large number of different fiscal incentives has different effect on the development of competitiveness. The process of the fiscal system decentralization should be further developed by higher tax revenues allotment.

Keywords: Local taxes, Regional taxes, Fiscal policy, Tourism, Fiscal incentive

JEL Classification: L83, H71

Suggested Citation:

Roller, Dragan and Hodzic, Sabina, Influence of Local and Regional Taxes on Tourism (September 5, 2011). Tourism in South East Europe, 2011, Sustainable Tourism: Socio-Cultural, Environmental and Economics Impact, pp. 305-314, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2166944
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
D Jeffries
Local budget of Primorje-Gorski kotar County Posted: 2001
M Mahović Komljenović
″Lokalni porezi koje mogu uvesti gradovi i općine″, Računovodstvo, revizija i financije , p. 152 - 158 Posted: 2008
D Roller , Zagreb Rrifplus , S H Rosen
Javne financije, Institut za javne financije, Zagreb. The Law Concerning the Financing of Units of Local Government and Regional Self-Government, the Official Gazette of the Republic of Croatia
Fiskalni sustavi i oporezivanje poduzeća Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,666
RANK
439,313
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies