Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Anatomy of the Nonprofit Starvation Cycle

Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Research Paper No. 12-27

27 Pages Posted: 4 Nov 2012 Last revised: 7 Dec 2012

Jesse D. Lecy

Arizona State University (ASU) - School of Public Affairs

Elizabeth A.M. Searing

University of Texas at Dallas - Public and Nonprofit Management

Date Written: November 1, 2012

Abstract

The nonprofit starvation cycle is a debilitating trend of under-investment in organizational infrastructure that is fed by potentially misleading financial reporting and donor expectations of increasingly low overhead expenses. Since its original reporting in 2008, the phenomenon has been referenced several times, but seldom explored empirically; this study utilizes twenty-five years of nonprofit data to examine the existence, duration, and mechanics behind the nonprofit starvation cycle. Our results show a definite downward trend in overhead costs, reflecting a deep cut in administrative expenses partially offset by an increasing in fundraising expenses. The organization’s size is instrumental to its behavior, with a sharp rise in overhead occurring when revenues equal $100 thousand, but diminishing at $550 thousand. Finally, the brunt of the cuts have fallen on non-executive staff wages and professional fees, which heighten the concern of ill effects from a fixation on overhead cost reduction.

Keywords: Starvation cycle, overhead costs, accountability, expense ratios, nonprofit competition

Suggested Citation:

Lecy, Jesse D. and Searing, Elizabeth A.M., Anatomy of the Nonprofit Starvation Cycle (November 1, 2012). Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Research Paper No. 12-27, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2170740 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2170740
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
A J Abramson
Sources of data on nonprofit finance
Nonprofit Management and Leadership , volume 5 , issue 4 , p. 443 - 451 Posted: 1995
Crossref
CharityWatch Hall of Shame Posted: 2011-08-28
R N Anthony
The financial information that nonprofit trustees need and how they can get it
Nonprofit Management and Leadership , volume 1 , issue 4 , p. 371 - 388 Posted: 1991
Crossref
P Arnsberger
IRS SOI Sampling -Background and Changes in Strata Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
486
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,780
RANK
134,221
1 Citations
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies