Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Application of Fault Tree Analysis to the Identification and Management of Risks in Government Funded Human Service Delivery

In Singh, K., Singh, B., et al. (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Public Policy and Social Sciences held in Kuching, October 31, 2011

15 Pages Posted: 6 Nov 2012

Peter Lacey

Department of Communities, Disability Services and Child Safety

Date Written: November 1, 2011

Abstract

In many economies, the delivery of Government funded human services through nongovernmental organizations has increased dramatically, resulting in a qualitative change to the scale and nature of the associated risk. Previously, where it existed, nongovernmental service delivery was ancillary to, or a minor component of, social policy delivery. In this context, risk was reasonably focused on probity. As nongovernmental service delivery increasingly becomes the main vehicle for the achievement of these policy objectives, risk to service system itself must be systematically identified and managed.

This paper employs a single exploratory/descriptive case study to describe one such approach to this need, developed in the Queensland Department of Communities. This approach incorporates the application of fault tree analysis to the determination of the elements of risk for that Department as a funder of human services prior to the qualitative ranking of risk. This enables the integration of strategic risk management with both operational assessments of funding risks and with senior executive performance management. The approach also addresses the allocation of risk ownership, from strategic through tactical to operational levels, within the agency.

The paper highlights the importance of recognizing failure of the service system as an integrated whole as the top level event, while addressing the complicating role of multiple and competing objectives. The service system includes the client, the service provider, and the policy-setter/funder, not merely as system components but as collaborators. For this reason, the risk management approach described also seeks to recognize the criticality of the dynamic relationship of these collaborators.

The risk identification methodology described has application to the management of funded nongovernmental service systems, with the potential to reduce compliance and monitoring costs for governments and nongovernmental service providers. More broadly, risk assessment frameworks adopted by governments have the capacity to modify nongovernmental behaviors in intended and unintended ways. This means that exploration of these frameworks is an important policy and research question in an emerging field of public administrative practice. This use of fault tree analysis opens future avenues for research, particularly as related to improved quantitative risk assessment for human service system management.

Keywords: Social services, Risk assessment, Nongovernmental organizations, NGOs, Performance evaluation, Performance management

JEL Classification: C61, D81, H57, I38, J41, L33, L89

Suggested Citation:

Lacey, Peter John, An Application of Fault Tree Analysis to the Identification and Management of Risks in Government Funded Human Service Delivery (November 1, 2011). In Singh, K., Singh, B., et al. (Eds.), Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Public Policy and Social Sciences held in Kuching, October 31, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2171117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
S Azariah , A Bokhari
Contracting NGOs for HIV/AIDS prevention with drug harm reduction in Pakistan
the 15th International Conference on AIDS Posted: 2004-07
Auditor-General Of Queensland
Report to Parliament No. 2 for 2007: Results of Performance Management Systems Audit of Management of Funding to Non-Government Organisations. Queensland Parliament Posted: 2007
H Bal
Three essays on corporate default prediction (Doctoral thesis) Posted: 2009
M Barzelay
The Single Case Study as Intellectually Ambitious Inquiry
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 305 - 318 Posted: 1993
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
944
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,644
RANK
56,659
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies