Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Do Board Size and Occupational Background of Directors Influence Social Performance in For-Profit and Non-Profit Organizations? Evidence from California Hospitals

Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 118 (1), p. 171-187.

17 Pages Posted: 17 Nov 2012 Last revised: 10 Aug 2014

Ge Bai

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Date Written: November 16, 2012

Abstract

This study investigates how board size and occupational background of directors differentially influence social performance in for-profit and non-profit organizations. Using data from California hospitals, we develop a quantitative measure of social performance and provide the following empirical evidence. First, board size is negatively (positively) associated with social performance in for-profit (non-profit) hospitals. Second, the presence of government officials on the board is negatively (positively) related to social performance in for-profit (non-profit) hospitals. Third, representation of physicians on the board is positively associated with social performance in for-profit hospitals, whereas their presence is not significantly related to social performance in non-profit hospitals. Our findings highlight the different effects of governance mechanisms on social performance in for-profit and non-profit organizations.

Keywords: Board size, Governance, Occupational background, Ownership, Social performance

Suggested Citation:

Bai, Ge, How Do Board Size and Occupational Background of Directors Influence Social Performance in For-Profit and Non-Profit Organizations? Evidence from California Hospitals (November 16, 2012). Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 118 (1), p. 171-187. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2176990
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
96 References
R Adams , B Hermalin , M Weisbach
The role of boards of directors in corporate governance: A conceptual framework and survey
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: Size, performance and managerial incentives
Journal of Economic Literature , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 58 - 107 Posted: 2011
Crossref
A Agrawal , C Knoeber
Do some outside directors play a political role
Journal of Law and Economics , volume 44 , issue 1 , p. 179 - 198 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Alexander , L Morlock , B Gifford
The effects of corporate restructuring on hospital policymaking
Health Services Research , volume 23 , issue 2 , p. 311 - 337 Posted: 1988
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
268
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,638
RANK
260,475
5 Citations
96 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies