Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reporting Performance Information in the Public Sector: The Moral behind the (Non) Application of Program Budgeting in Greece

International Review of Administrative Sciences, Vol. 80, No. 3, pp. 619-636, September 2014

Posted: 16 Nov 2012 Last revised: 26 Nov 2014

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

The article examines the timetable of the introduction and the sudden abandoning of program budgeting in Greece. The analysis is conducted through the lens of neo-institutional theory, organizational change theory and the resource dependency model. The framework developed is informed by archival data and the views of executives involved with the program as well as politicians. The findings suggest that subsequent institutional pressures deriving from the country’s resource dependency resulted in a re-prioritization of actions and therefore to the abandoning of the program budgeting project. Moreover, the analysis reveals that the cultivated culture inside a bureaucratic central government which gives rise to resistance to change and the poor diffusion of the new accounting philosophy would have hampered the success of the new system even if the plan had not been abandoned.

Keywords: program budgeting, performance budgeting, performance information, public sector accounting, Greece

JEL Classification: M40, M41, H60, H61

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Reporting Performance Information in the Public Sector: The Moral behind the (Non) Application of Program Budgeting in Greece (2013). International Review of Administrative Sciences, Vol. 80, No. 3, pp. 619-636, September 2014 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2176025 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2176025
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,177
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies