Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Errors in Nonprofit Organizations

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

Posted: 22 Nov 2012 Last revised: 12 May 2015

Jeffrey J. Burks

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: November 1, 2014

Abstract

This study examines the accounting errors committed by public charities. Public charities report errors at a rate that is 60 percent higher than that of publicly-traded corporations, and almost twice as high as that of similar-sized corporations. The errors are commonly errors of omission (i.e., failing to recognize items that should be recognized). The error rate is not significantly associated with organization size, type, or portion of the budget devoted to administrative activities, but does have a strong positive association with internal control deficiencies and a strong negative association with Big 4 and second tier auditors. The error corrections often have low visibility in the financial reports issued by public charities; although they are reported in the footnotes of the audited financial statements, they often are not mentioned in auditor reports and in IRS Form 990s. The study improves understanding of the accounting challenges faced by nonprofits, and may improve nonprofit financial reporting by helping nonprofit managers and auditors understand the common circumstances and types of errors, and thus what activities to monitor more closely. The study also contributes to the academic literature by comparing the errors of nonprofits to those of corporations, by examining the outcomes of audits involving small auditors and small clients, and by advancing understanding of discrepancies between audited and unaudited financial reports.

Keywords: nonprofit, public charity, financial reporting, accounting errors, restatements, auditing

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Burks, Jeffrey J., Accounting Errors in Nonprofit Organizations (November 1, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2178611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2178611
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,004
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies