Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does the Financial Market Fully Price Unfunded Pension Liabilities in Australia: Evidence from Corporate Defined-Benefit Superannuatio

Posted: 30 Nov 2012

Adam Butt

Australian National University - Research School of Finance, Actuarial Studies & Statistics

Yin Liao

Macquarie University - Department of Applied Finance and Actuarial Studies; Australian National University - The Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA)

Di Bu

University of Queensland

Date Written: November 29, 2012

Abstract

As one of the older but still widespread forms of superannuation in Australia, the majority of defined benefit funds in Australia have experienced significant deficits since the beginning of the global financial crisis. Due to the presence of complex actuarial assumptions and far-from-transparent accounting disclosure, these deficits may not yet be fully manifested in financial markets. In this paper, a unique dataset comprising the defined benefit obligations of Australian listed firms over 2005-2010 is investigated to empirically test whether these unfunded pension liabilities are completely priced in Australian financial markets. Our study has important implications for corporate finance and accounting policy.

Suggested Citation:

Butt, Adam and Liao, Yin and Bu, Di, Does the Financial Market Fully Price Unfunded Pension Liabilities in Australia: Evidence from Corporate Defined-Benefit Superannuatio (November 29, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2182817
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,571
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies