Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Full Costing Approach to Increase Private Universities' Profitability: (A Case Study of MSA University)

20 Pages Posted: 19 Jun 2019 Last revised: 4 Jan 2022

Yasser Tawfik Halim

October University for Modern Sciences and Arts (MSA)

Mohamed Samy Eldeeb

MSA University

Shura Shawky

Modern Sciences and Arts University (MSA University)

Date Written: December 14, 2012

Abstract

The new forms of competition and the structural modifications of exchange processes, partly due to the emerging economy of the virtual network, “brand switching” is becoming a popular way to describe the instability of the customer bases in the so called "The Changes In The Micro Environment" are forcing firms to give top priority to customer relationship management.

Referring to this context, the present paper proposes a model to analyze the financial impact of loyalty program, grounding on the customer satisfaction on the profitability of the private education institutions. The model describes the process of customer loyalty measurement, considering loyalty and its relationship with satisfaction, and identifying its impact on the organization. A dynamic model of customer loyalty is derived from the analysis of the different forms of ‘link’ that the firm can develop with its customers during the relationship life cycle.

Keywords: risk management, satisfaction, loyalty, full costing approach, accounting measuresmeasures, profitability, private universities, Egypt

Suggested Citation:

Halim, Yasser Tawfik and Eldeeb, Mohamed Samy and Shawky, Shura, Full Costing Approach to Increase Private Universities' Profitability: (A Case Study of MSA University) (December 14, 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2189346 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2189346
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
A Brochado
Comparing alternative instruments to measure service quality in higher education
Quality Assurance in Education , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 174 - 190 Posted: 2009
O W Deshields , A Kara , E Kaynak
Determinants of business student satisfaction and retention in higher education: applying Herzberg's two-factor theory
International Journal of Educational Management , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 128 - 139 Posted: 2005
A S Dick , K Basu , John Proops , Sandrine Simon
Customer Loyalty: Toward an Integrated environmentally sustainable profits
Greening the Accounts Posted: 1994
A Firdaus
The development of HEdPERF: a new measuring instrument of service quality for the higher education sector
International Journal of Consumer Studies Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
812,529
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies