Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Crisis Caused Changes in Intrinsic Liquidity Value in Non-Profit Institutions

Equilibrium. Quarterly Journal of Economics and Economic Policy, 2012, Volume 7, Issue 2

19 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2012 Last revised: 25 Dec 2012

Grzegorz Michalski

Technical University in Košice (TUKE); Uniwersytet Ekonomiczny we Wrocławiu - Faculty of Engineering and Economics

Date Written: December 14, 2012

Abstract

Liquid assets which nonprofit institutions holds are not a source of any special interests and although the close to cash assesses together with credit lines available for nonprofit institution are connected with resigning from realization of the part of incomes or costs, nonprofit institutions decide to hold some liquidity reserves. And not only this resulting from transactional needs, but also from precautional and speculative reasons. Investment in liquid reserves resulting from speculative demand for money may be assessed by usage of capital budgeting methods. In the paper, each of these aspects of liquidity was taken into consideration and presented from nonprofit perspective. Nonprofit liquidity value determination may often significantly contribute to the solution of working capital management problems in these institutions.

Keywords: Intrinsic liquidity value, Nonprofit financial management, financial liquidity

JEL Classification: G31, L31, M21

Suggested Citation:

Michalski, Grzegorz and Michalski, Grzegorz, Crisis Caused Changes in Intrinsic Liquidity Value in Non-Profit Institutions (December 14, 2012). Equilibrium. Quarterly Journal of Economics and Economic Policy, 2012, Volume 7, Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2189488 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2189488
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
W J Baumol
The Transactions Demand for Cash: An Inventory Theoretic Approach
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 66 , p. 545 - 556 Posted: 1952
Crossref
P E Beck
The Option Value of Money, Working Paper nr 93-15 Posted: 1993-11
P E Beck , D R Stockman
Money as Real Options in a Cash-inAdvance Economy
Economics Letters , volume 87 , p. 337 - 345 Posted: 2005
Crossref
W Beranek
Analysis for Financial Decisions Posted: 1963
Load more
21 Citations
Marek Królik
Sprzedaż Zaplanuj dla firm z placu budowy dróg i autostrad (Sales Plan for Companies from the Construction Work for Roads and Motorways)
7 Pages · Posted: 27 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 30
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Małgorzata Świrydowicz
Planowanie przychodów ze sprzedaży na przykładzie przedsiębiorstwa z branży: działalność w zakresie architektury i inżynierii; badania i analizy techniczne (Planning of Sales for Example, Companies Active in the Field of Architecture and Engineering, Technical Testing and Analysis)
8 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 38
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aleksandra Muchorowska
Długoterminowe Decyzje W Zakresie Finansów Przedsiębiorstw Na Przykładzie Przedsiębiorstwa Z Branży Hadlu Hurtowego (Long-Term Decisions in the Field of Corporate Finance for Example, Companies in the Retailing Wholesale)
8 Pages · Posted: 14 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Roksana Bąk , Patrycja Pinkowska
Planowanie Przychodów Ze Sprzedaży Na Przykładzie Przedsiębiorstw Z Branży Obsługi Rynku Nieruchomości (Sales Planning on the Example of Companies in the Real Estate Market)
Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics, Forthcoming · 7 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2013 · Downloads: 95
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
155
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,099
RANK
436,942
21 Citations
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The New Role of the Corporate Treasurer: Emerging Trends in Response to the Financial Crisis

By Petr Polak, David C. Robertson, ...

Płynność finansowa w małych i średnich przedsiębiorstwach (Financial Liquidity Management in Small and Medium Enterprises)

By Grzegorz Michalski

Zarządzanie ryzykiem w tworzeniu wartości na przykładzie przedsiębiorstwa z branży 32 tj. : Pozostała produkcja wyrobów, podklasa 32.99 (Risk Management in Creating Value for Example, Companies in the 32.99 Other Manufacturing Company A)

By Karolina Sieńkowska and Karolina Sendyka

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies