Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Effectiveness of the State Tax Administration in India with Particular Reference to the Value-Added Tax

45 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2013

Arindam Das-Gupta

Goa Institute of Management

Fernanda Andrade

Goa Institute of Management

Date Written: January 2, 2013

Abstract

This study reviews the effectiveness of state level tax administrations in India with reference to their implementation of a goods only Value-Added Tax (VAT), mostly in 2005. The study takes advantage of state by state audits evaluating the transition to the VAT from the predecessor sales tax carried out by India's supreme audit institution, the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). The average performance of the state tax administrations is poor when compared with performance evidence from other countries. The CAG audits examine different administrative activities, grouped into 12 areas here, and document a variety of lapses, from poorly drafted VAT laws, to incomplete automation, to lax tax assessment and a reluctance to levy penalties for detected non-compliance. Case studies of non-compliance, reported in Boxes in the paper, paint a clear picture of how inept some of these tax administrations are. The study finds evidence that weak tax administration and it consequence, widespread tax non-compliance, had a statistically measurable impact on tax performance. Since India plans to move shortly from the existing tax regime to a Goods and Services Tax, this study underlines the high risk to the proposed reform from weak state tax administration unless steps are first taken to strengthen the administrations.

Keywords: tax administration, tax performance, VAT, India sub-national taxes

JEL Classification: H25, H26, H71

Suggested Citation:

Das-Gupta, Arindam and Andrade, Fernanda, An Analysis of the Effectiveness of the State Tax Administration in India with Particular Reference to the Value-Added Tax (January 2, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2195540 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2195540
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Return filing, stop-filers, stop-filer control
Arindam Das-Gupta
An Assessment of the Revenue Impact of the State Level VAT in India
Pages: 24 Posted: 2 Nov 2011 Last revised: 21 Nov 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Dos Santos , Paulo
Administration of Large Taxpayers. Internal Monetary Fund Posted: 1994
Liam Ebrill , Michael Keen , Jean-Paul Bodin , Victoria Summers
The Modern VAT Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
429
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,623
RANK
155,588
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies