Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Director Monitoring of Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations: The Effects of Expense Disclosure Transparency, Donor Evaluation Focus and Organization Performance

40 Pages Posted: 7 Jan 2013 Last revised: 16 Apr 2015

Qiu Chen

University of Ottawa

Date Written: April 15, 2015

Abstract

When the financial performance of nonprofit organizations is poor — more specifically, the ratio of reported program expense to total expense is low, managers of these organizations are found to misreport expenses in order to boost the ratio. This study examines whether three factors — the transparency of expense disclosures, donor evaluation focus and nonfinancial performance — influence how directors monitor management expense misreporting under these circumstances. An experiment with 189 nonprofit directors finds that the enhanced transparency of expense disclosures increases director monitoring by reducing the tendency to accept management expense misreporting. Further, an organization’s nonfinancial performance and the perceived fairness of donor evaluation focus interact to influence director monitoring practices. Specifically, when directors know an organization’s nonfinancial performance is poor and understand that this performance will negatively influence the willingness of donors to contribute, the experimental results show that directors monitor less if they think that donors are adopting a more balanced approach to organizational evaluation that focuses on both financial and nonfinancial performance, i.e., there is a reverse fair process effect as this donor approach is perceived as being fairer than if donors focus solely on financial performance. However, monitoring is equally strong regardless of donor evaluation focus when directors know that an organization’s nonfinancial performance is good and a donation is forthcoming.

Keywords: nonprofit organizations, director monitoring role, transparency, donor evaluation focus

JEL Classification: C9, G3, L3, M4

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Qiu, Director Monitoring of Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations: The Effects of Expense Disclosure Transparency, Donor Evaluation Focus and Organization Performance (April 15, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2197114 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2197114
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
78 References
G P Ahier
Accounting 101: providing a framework to convey financial information at a board or similar meeting
The Philanthropist , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 17 Posted: 2007
Association of Fundraising Professionals Posted: 2008-12-30
W R Baber , A A Roberts , G Visvanathan
Charitable organizations' strategies and program-spending ratio
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 343 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J Brockner
Making sense of procedural fairness: how high procedural fairness can reduce or heighten the influence of outcome favorability
Academy of Management Review , volume 27 , issue 1 , p. 85 - 76 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
4 Citations
Ling Harris , Scott B. Jackson , Joel Owens , Nicholas Seybert
Recruiting Dark Personalities for Earnings Management
68 Pages · Posted: 18 Feb 2021 · Downloads: 247
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
DiMaris Medina-Cortes
Nonprofit Fraud Detection and Prevention Techniques From A Leader’s Perspective: A Q-Methodology Study
156 Pages · Posted: 18 Nov 2021 · Downloads: 152
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Kai Ma , Jiang Liu , Yongyi Sha , Wei Zhang , Zhenhua Ni , Xueqing Kong , Minhong Xiang
Qi Jing Mingmu Decoction Inhibits p38 Signal Pathway in Conjunctivochalasis Fibroblasts Through Down-Regulation of Th17 Cell Differentiation
JETHNO-D-22-01982 · 18 Pages · Posted: 23 May 2022 · Downloads: 24
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Qingkai Dong , Anthony Le
The Impact of Financial Reporting Mandates on Labor Unions
116 Pages · Posted: 17 Oct 2022 · Last revised: 11 Aug 2025 · Downloads: 543
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
221
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,642
RANK
315,702
4 Citations
78 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Profit Maximization Versus Disadvantageous Inequality: The Impact of Self-Categorization

By Stephen M. Garcia, Avishalom Tor, ...

Ranks and Rivals: A Theory of Competition

By Stephen M. Garcia, Avishalom Tor, ...

Rankings, Standards, and Competition: Task vs. Scale Comparisons

By Stephen M. Garcia and Avishalom Tor

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies