Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Not-for-Profits Need Their Own Conceptual Framework?

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management Accounting

Posted: 26 Feb 2013

Christine Merle Ryan

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Janet Mack

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Stuart Tooley

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Helen Joy Irvine

Queensland University of Technology

Date Written: February 6, 2013

Abstract

This paper raises the issue of whether not-for-profit (NFP) oganisations require a conceptual framework that acknowledges their mission imperative and enables them to discharge their broader accountability. Relying on publicly available documentation and literature, it suggests the current Conceptual Frameworks for the for-profit and public sectors are inadequate in meeting the accountability needs of NFPs. A NFP-specific conceptual framework would allow the demonstration of broader NFP-specific accountability and the formulation of NFP-appropriate reporting practice, including the provision of financial and non-financial reporting. The paper thus theoretically challenges existing financial reporting arrangements and invites debate on their future direction.

Keywords: Conceptual framework, Accountability, NFPs, Non-reciprocal transfers, Volunteers

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ryan, Christine Merle and Mack, Janet and Tooley, Stuart T. and Irvine, Helen Joy, Do Not-for-Profits Need Their Own Conceptual Framework? (February 6, 2013). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2224317
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,722
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies