Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
L'Auditing Finanziario Contabile Delle Amministrazioni Regionali: Una Impostazione Operativa (Guidelines for the Audit of Local Governement Financial Statements)

L'auditing finanziario contabile nelle Amministrazioni Regionali, De Frede Editore, Napoli 2012

Posted: 7 Apr 2013

Francesco Capalbo

Second University of Naples - Department of Economics; Seconda Universita degli Studi di Napoli

Date Written: October 24, 2012

Abstract

Italian Corte dei Conti is required to audit financial statements of Local Governments (Regioni) and to produce a report known as "referto." In order to perform such an audit, auditing standards developed in private experience (ISAs) might be of great help. Nonetheless, they do need to be adapted to the particular nature of such an audit and especially to the particular nature of the Corte dei Conti when compared to any other private auditing company. This work, based on the indication of the ISAs, offers a set of guidelines to help the Corte dei Conti operators performing their duties and provides also a set of templates that can be readily used.

Suggested Citation:

Capalbo, Francesco, L'Auditing Finanziario Contabile Delle Amministrazioni Regionali: Una Impostazione Operativa (Guidelines for the Audit of Local Governement Financial Statements) (October 24, 2012). L'auditing finanziario contabile nelle Amministrazioni Regionali, De Frede Editore, Napoli 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2246088
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
994
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies