Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Colleges and Universities 'Manage' Their Financial Reporting?

17 Pages Posted: 4 May 2013 Last revised: 9 May 2013

Robert E. Martin

Centre College

Date Written: April 2, 2013

Abstract

Prior to 2008 public universities, private universities, and liberal arts colleges made small changes in the proportion of total cost accounted for by instruction, research, and public service. After 2008 these institutions reported dramatic increases in the share of total cost accounted for by instruction, research, and public service. These shifts may be legitimate examples of resource reallocation or they may be examples of widespread reclassification of expenses. The latter case suggests financial reports are “managed” in higher education, as they frequently are among corporations. I explore the relationship between these shifts and changes in staffing.

Keywords: financial reporting, activity ratio

JEL Classification: I23, I28

Suggested Citation:

Martin, Robert E., Do Colleges and Universities 'Manage' Their Financial Reporting? (April 2, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2259739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2259739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
Nick Anderson
Five colleges misreported data to U.S. News, raising concerns about rankings, reputation
Washington Post Posted: 2013-02-06
William R Baber , Patricia L Daniel , Andrea A Roberts
Compensation to Managers of Charitable Organizations: An Empirical Study of the Role of Accounting Measures of Program Activities
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 679 - 693 Posted: 2002-07
Crossref
Howard R Bowen
The Costs of Higher Education: How much do colleges and universities spend per student and how much should they spend? Posted: 1980
Rachel Brody
President Pamela Gann Discusses False Reporting of SAT Scores Posted: 2012-02-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,842
RANK
560,422
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Education eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Baumol and Bowen Cost Effects in Research Universities

By Robert E. Martin and Carter Hill

Involuntary and Voluntary Cost Increases in Private Research Universities

By Robert E. Martin and Carter Hill

Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies