Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Unfunded Public Pension Liabilities and Local Citizen Oversight

Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 6 May 2013 Last revised: 5 Aug 2014

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Jean X. Zhang

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU)

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

We examine whether unfunded public pension liabilities are associated with citizen oversight through legislative and electoral means in local governments. Our focus on municipal pension plans is timely and relevant, given the prevalence of underfunded pension plans and GASB’s recently issued statements on state and local pension reporting. Using a sample of 84 locally administered municipal defined benefit pension plans in 2009, we find evidence that the level of unfunded pension obligations is negatively associated with both provisions allowing direct citizen participation in the legislative process and electoral voter activism in the form of recent recall attempts. Overall, our empirical evidence is consistent with citizen oversight mechanisms playing an important role in the pension funding decisions of municipal governments.

Keywords: Pensions, Citizen oversight, Voter activism, Local government, Municipal accounting

JEL Classification: M38, M41

Suggested Citation:

Rich, Kevin T. and Zhang, Jean X., Unfunded Public Pension Liabilities and Local Citizen Oversight (August 1, 2014). Accounting Horizons, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2261211 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2261211
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
State and Local Pension Systems
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) Posted: 1980
W R Baber
The Influence of Political Competition on Governmental Reporting and Auditing
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 8 , p. 109 - 128 Posted: 1994
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
An Empirical Investigation of Accounting Restatements and Governance in the Municipal Context
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
M E Barth
Relative measurement errors among alternative pension asset and liability measures
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , issue 3 , p. 433 - 463 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
149
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,275
RANK
451,566
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies