Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Sustainability Reporting in State Universities: An Investigation of Italian Pioneering Practices

International Journal of Social Ecology and Sustainable Development, 4(2), April-June 2013, pp. 1-15

24 Pages Posted: 26 May 2013 Last revised: 5 Jun 2013

Benedetta Siboni

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Carlotta del Sordo

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Silvia Pazzi

Independent

Date Written: 2013

Abstract

Recent years have witnessed an increasing interest towards sustainability reporting from scholars all over the world, especially focusing on large corporations. Research has only recently been carried out regarding sustainability reporting in the public sector; however, very few studies have been published with reference to universities. In Italy, despite the fact that sustainability reporting is not mandatory, two guidelines have been issued to promote it within state universities. To date, only few studies have been published on this topic. To bridge this gap, the current work aims to review and assess the state of sustainability reporting in Italian state universities and therefore it contributes to the international debate about the development of sustainability reporting in the public sector. In doing so, this paper represents one of the first attempts at investigating sustainability reports in universities, and more broadly in the public sector.

Keywords: Documentary Analysis, Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting, Higher Education, Italy

Suggested Citation:

Siboni, Benedetta and del Sordo, Carlotta and Pazzi, Silvia, Sustainability Reporting in State Universities: An Investigation of Italian Pioneering Practices (2013). International Journal of Social Ecology and Sustainable Development, 4(2), April-June 2013, pp. 1-15, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2269892
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
T Agasisti
Market forces and competition in university systems: theoretical reflections and empirical evidence from Italy
International Review of applied economics , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 463 - 483 Posted: 2009
Crossref
F K Alexander
The changing face of accountability
The Journal of High Education , volume 71 , issue 4 , p. 411 - 431 Posted: 2000
Crossref
L G Alexander
Quantitative and Qualitative Approaches to Content Analysis
Documentary Research , volume 1 Posted: 2006
M Arnaboldi , G Azzone
Benchmarking university activities: an Italian case study
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 20 , issue 2 , p. 205 - 220 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
276
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,820
RANK
252,723
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies