Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of Budgeting and Accounting Reforms in the National Governments of France, Germany, the UK and the US

Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 1 Jun 2013

Rowan Jones

University of Birmingham

Evelyne Lande

Universite de Poitiers

Marine Portal

Universite de Poitiers

Klaus Lüder

German University for Administrative Sciences Speyer

Date Written: May 31, 2013

Abstract

This paper compares technical aspects of accrual-based budgeting and accounting reforms of the national governments of France, Germany, the UK and the US. It shows that there is no consensus among the four countries about the complete package of technical reform possibilities that is most appropriate; there is also no consensus among the four countries about each one of the possibilities that is most appropriate. What is clear is the resilience of traditional budgetary accounting systems. It is also clear that, in the fundamental context and content of the reforms, the UK is the striking exception.

Keywords: Budgetary accounting, accrual basis, national governments, France, Germany, UK and US

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Jones, Rowan and Lande, Evelyne and Portal, Marine and Lüder, Klaus, A Comparison of Budgeting and Accounting Reforms in the National Governments of France, Germany, the UK and the US (May 31, 2013). Financial Accountability and Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2272575
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies