Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
GASB Mandatory Disclosure Rules and Municipal Bond Yield Spreads

35 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2017

Ali Nejadmalayeri

University of Wyoming - College of Business

Sheri Faircloth

University of Nevada, Reno - College of Business Administration

Jeanne Wendel

University of Nevada, Reno - College of Business Administration

Surya Chelikani

Quinnipiac University

Date Written: July 7, 2013

Abstract

The implementation of the Government Accounting Standards Board’s Statement 45 mandates disclosure of other post-employment benefits in a standardized format. The mandate provides an opportunity to analyze non-information impacts of mandatory disclosures, as key components of the information were already publicly available. We find that this mandate is associated with a significant 15 and 73 basis-point increase in yield spreads among tax-exempt and taxable bonds, respectively. This effect is particularly more pronounced for riskier bonds — non-rated and longer maturity taxable bonds. However, states that do not follow the GASB 45 recommendation of prefunding the OPEB obligations face a greater increase in their yield spreads.

Keywords: Mandatory Disclosures, Municipal Bonds, Yields

JEL Classification: D82, G10, G18, H74, H75

Suggested Citation:

Nejadmalayeri, Ali and Faircloth, Sheri and Wendel, Jeanne and Chelikani, Surya, GASB Mandatory Disclosure Rules and Municipal Bond Yield Spreads (July 7, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2290739 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2290739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,264
RANK
677,757
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies