Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Ownership on Strategic Cost Management: Evidence from U.S. Hospitals

AAA 2014 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper

Posted: 24 Jul 2013

Kathryn J. Chang

Sonoma State University

Hassan R. Hassabelnaby

Northern Kentucky University

Date Written: July 22, 2013

Abstract

This paper empirically examines the influence of ownership on strategic cost management (SCM) and related performance consequences in the health care industry. The concept of SCM is proposed as a two-dimensional strategy construct: revenue enhancement and cost reduction. Revenue enhancement refers to the use of SCM instruments to improve the quality of current revenue streams and identify revenue growth opportunities, whereas cost reduction refers to the use of SCM instruments to identify operational inefficiencies and contain costs. Drawing upon property rights theory and prior accounting literature, we develop the hypotheses that predict the ownership type would affect the extent to which the hospital strategically manages revenues and costs of operation, leading to possible improvement in financial performance. We select certain performance measures that are commonly used in accounting and healthcare research to operationalize the extensive use of SCM revenue-enhancing and SCM cost reduction strategies. A two-stage analysis approach is employed to address potential endogenity issues commonly associated with the relationship between ownership and performance in accounting research (Larcker and Rusticus 2010). Using a sample from short-term general, acute care hospitals in the State of California, we find that the ownership type does play a significant role in the choice of SCM strategies along the dimension of revenue-enhancing and cost reduction across different types of hospitals. Moreover, there is strong evidence that the association between the extensive use of SCM strategies and hospital financial performance is a function of the “match” between SCM use and a hospital’s ownership type, operating characteristics, and market environment.

Keywords: strategic cost management, performance, healthcare

JEL Classification: M41, L31

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Kathryn J. and Hassabelnaby, Hassan R., The Influence of Ownership on Strategic Cost Management: Evidence from U.S. Hospitals (July 22, 2013). AAA 2014 Management Accounting Section (MAS) Meeting Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2297082 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2297082
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,726
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Institutional Drivers of Reporting Decisions in Nonprofit Hospitals

By Ranjani Krishnan and Michelle Yetman

The Effects of Governance on the Accuracy of Charitable Expenses Reported by Nonprofit Organizations

By Robert J. Yetman and Michelle Yetman

The Influence of Ownership on Accounting Information Expenditures

By Leslie Eldenburg and Ranjani Krishnan

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies