Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulation and Supervision: An Ethical Approach

44 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2013 Last revised: 28 Nov 2013

Edward J. Kane

Boston College - Department of Finance; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Date Written: November 18, 2013

Abstract

This essay shows that government credit-allocation schemes generate incentive conflicts that undermine the quality of bank supervision and eventually produce banking crisis. For political reasons, most countries establish a regulatory culture that embraces three economically contradictory elements: politically directed subsidies to selected bank borrowers; subsidized provision of explicit or implicit repayment guarantees for the creditors of firms that participate in the credit-allocation scheme; and defective government monitoring and control of the distribution of burdens and subsidies that the other two elements produce. In the years leading up to the panic of 2008, technological change and regulatory competition simultaneously encouraged incentive-conflicted supervisors to outsource much of their due discipline to credit-rating firms and encouraged lenders to securitize their loans in ways that pushed credit risks on poorly underwritten loans into corners of the universe where supervisors and credit-ratings firms would not see them.

Keywords: banking regulation, desupervision, regulatory competition, banking crisis, regulatory culture, regulatory norms

JEL Classification: D72, E58, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Kane, Edward J., Regulation and Supervision: An Ethical Approach (November 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2311717 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2311717
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
George Akerlof , Paul Romer
Looting: The Economic Underworld of Bankruptcy for Profit
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity , issue 2 Posted: 1993
Crossref
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Rethinking Bank Regulation: Till Angels Govern Posted: 2006
J R Barth , G Caprio , R Levine
Posted: 2012
Crossref
Journal of Financial Economic Policy , volume 5 , p. 111 - 219 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,650
RANK
496,121
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Sentinel: Improving the Governance of Financial Regulation

By Ross Levine

The Governance of Financial Regulation: Reform Lessons from the Recent Crisis

By Ross Levine

An Autopsy of the U.S. Financial System: Accident, Suicide, or Negligent Homicide?

By Ross Levine

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies