Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Would GASB Proposals Affect State and Local Pension Reporting?

22 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2013

Alicia H. Munnell

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Jean-Pierre Aubry

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Joshua Hurwitz

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Laura Quinby

Boston College - Center for Retirement Research

Date Written: June 2012

Abstract

States and localities account for pensions in their financial statements according to standards laid out by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB). Under these standards, state and local plans generally follow an actuarial model and discount their liabilities by the long-term yield on the assets held in the pension fund, roughly 8 percent. Most econo­mists contend that the discount rate should reflect the risk associated with the liabilities and, given that benefits are guaranteed under most state laws, the appropriate discount factor is closer to the riskless rate. The point is not that liabilities should be larger or smaller, but rather that the discount rate should reflect the nature of the liabilities; the characteristics of the assets backing the liabilities are irrelevant.

Suggested Citation:

Munnell, Alicia and Aubry, Jean-Pierre and Hurwitz, Joshua and Quinby, Laura, How Would GASB Proposals Affect State and Local Pension Reporting? (June 2012). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2316838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2316838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Lawrence N Bader , Jeremy Gold
Reinventing Pension Actuarial Science
The Pension Forum , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 13 Posted: 2003
Simon Benninga
Financial Modeling Posted: 2008
L P Bloomberg
Bloomberg Online Posted: 2011-10-20
Zvi Bodie , Robert Merton , David Cheeton
Financial Economics. Upper Saddle River Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,856
RANK
355,843
11 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Social Security, Pensions & Retirement Income eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

Investment and Financing Constraints: Evidence from the Funding of Corporate Pension Plans

By Joshua D. Rauh

Taxation and Corporate Pension Policy

By Irwin Tepper

Earnings Manipulation, Pension Assumptions and Managerial Investment Decisions

By Daniel Bergstresser, Joshua D. Rauh, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies