Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
More Haircut after VAT Cut? On the Efficiency of Service Sector Consumption Taxes

Government Institute for Economic Research Working Papers No. 49

47 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2013

Tuomas Kosonen

University of Helsinki - Department of Political and Economic Studies

Date Written: September 26, 2013

Abstract

Consumption tax rates targeted at specific sectors are often reformed without empirical knowledge about the efficiency of these policies. This paper sheds light on the efficiency issue, the potential for welfare improving reform, by studying the incidence of value added taxes (VAT) on prices and quantities of barber services traded. I also study the incidence on the profits made by the targeted firms. I utilize a VAT reform targeted at a specific service sector which creates a natural experiment set up. VAT for hairdressing services in Finland was reduced from 22% to 8%, whereas the normal tax treatment still applied to beauty salons and other labor intensive services. The choice of the treatment and control groups was exogenous to circumstances in Finland, since these groups were selected in a more wider European setting. The results suggest that hairdressers cut their prices only by half of what complete pass-through would have implied, and that there was hardly any adjustment in the equilibrium quantity due to the reform. Instead of lowering prices, most hairdressers were able to increase their profits. There is important heterogeneity in the results according to firm size.

Keywords: VAT reform, efficiency, tax incidence

JEL Classification: H22, H21, H25

Suggested Citation:

Kosonen, Tuomas, More Haircut after VAT Cut? On the Efficiency of Service Sector Consumption Taxes (September 26, 2013). Government Institute for Economic Research Working Papers No. 49, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2334084 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2334084
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
J Alm , E Sennoga , M Skidmore
Perfect competition, urbanicity, and tax incidence in the retail gasoline market
Economic Inquiry , volume 47 , p. 118 - 134 Posted: 2009
Crossref
S P Anderson , A De Palma , B Kreider
Tax incidence in differentiated product oligopoly
Journal of Public Economics , volume 81 , p. 173 - 192 Posted: 2001
Crossref
A B Atkinson , J E Stiglitz
The design of tax structure: direct versus indirect taxation
Journal of Public Economics , volume 6 , p. 55 - 75 Posted: 1976
Crossref
T J Besley , H S Rosen
Sales taxes and prices: an empirical analysis
National Tax Journal , volume 52 , p. 157 - 178 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,248
RANK
401,129
1 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies