Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors’ Affecting the Hospital's Cost Structure: The Case of a Greek University Hospital

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, V.1, No. 2, 2013

6 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2013 Last revised: 29 Oct 2013

Georgios L. Thanasas

Department of Management Science and Technology

Date Written: October 21, 2013

Abstract

This paper analyzes the data that compose the cost structure of Greek Hospitals. Moreover, an attempt is made to explore the main operating factors that affect the total cost of hospitals. This study, tries to contribute to literature in order to group into categories the expenses of hospitals, while also it provides information to users on the cost structure of hospitals. In order to do so, a big University Hospital of Greece was taken into account, for the period 2005-2009 in a quarterly basis for both financial and operative factors. Eleven cost categories that component the cost structure of the Hospital and four operative factors were taken into account for this analysis. The results have shown the cost factors who significantly affected the cost structure of this particular University Hospital.

Keywords: Operative Costs, Cost Structure, Hospitals, Greece

Suggested Citation:

Thanasas, Georgios L., Factors’ Affecting the Hospital's Cost Structure: The Case of a Greek University Hospital (October 21, 2013). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, V.1, No. 2, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2337607
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
P J Arnold , L S Oakes
Hospitals in the United States: A study of the entity assumption in accounting
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 6 , p. 105 - 123 Posted: 1995
Crossref
W Bartlett , J Le Grand
The impact of NHS reforms on hospital costs
Studies in Decentralization and Quasi -Markets , issue 8 Posted: 1992
S W Becker , D Neuheuser
The Efficient Organization Posted: 1975
A Bellas , G L Thanasas , I Giotopoulos
Health Services in Greece: An Approach to their Operational Cost
ICOAE 2009: International Conference on Applied Economics Posted: 2009-05-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
230
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,489
RANK
303,670
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Microeconomics & Industrial Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies