Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance Challenges by Participatory Budget in the Italian Municipalities

Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2013/23

27 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2013

Salvatore Russo

Ca Foscari University of Venice

Date Written: October 1, 2013

Abstract

The paper explores the phenomenon of participative budget (PB) in Italy, inspired by insights and reflections on public governance, participation and inclusion of citizens in the local authority expenditure decisions. It illustrates and discusses the survey results of a sample of municipalities that, since some years, use the PB as an approach to program resource allocation. In particular it focuses on the characteristics of the context in which PB has encountered practical implementation, the way by which it was realized the most common type of intervention and, finally, the critical situation in the units of analysis. The conclusions give way to considerations of what actions still need to promote, so that PB can really be seen as a tool for an effective management.

Keywords: governance, participatory budget

Suggested Citation:

Russo, Salvatore, Governance Challenges by Participatory Budget in the Italian Municipalities (October 1, 2013). Department of Management, Università Ca' Foscari Venezia Working Paper No. 2013/23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2347063
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Abers R
From clientalism to cooperation: local government, participatory Policy, and Civic Organizing in Porto Alegre, Brazil
Politics and society , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 511 - 538 Posted: 1998
Crossref
J Ackerman
Co-Governance for Accountability: Beyond "exit" and "voice
World development , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 463 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Allegretti G
Bilancio partecipativo e gestione urbana: l'esperienza brasiliana di Porto Alegre
Il ruolo delle assemblee elettive , volume 1 Posted: 2001
Allegretti G
I bilanci partecipativi in Europa. Una ricerca comparativa nel Vecchio Continente
Quale Stato Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,478
RANK
568,179
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies