Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Carbon Accounting: Challenges for Research in Management Control and Performance Measurement

Forthcoming in Abacus

41 Pages Posted: 31 Oct 2013 Last revised: 9 Nov 2013

Frank G. H. Hartmann

Radboud University Nijmegen - Institute for Management Research

Paolo Perego

Free University of Bozen-Bolzano

Anna Young-Ferris

University of Sydney Business School

Date Written: October 30, 2013

Abstract

Carbon reduction programs and corporate emissions reporting have expanded rapidly across firms in response to climate change and global warming. This development is partly driven by institutional demands and partly by value creation considerations. The consequences of these developments for management accounting and control (MAC) are not clear, despite anecdotal evidence that suggests an increasing effort to incorporate carbon accounting into traditional decision and reporting processes. The reasons for this lack of clarity are the disproportionate focus in practice on carbon disclosure, compared to a small number of empirical studies and the absence of an academic debate in this novel area from a MAC perspective. This paper seeks to stimulate such an academic debate by reviewing the extant literature, identifying key theoretical and empirical shortcomings of extant academic research, and outlining some directions for future studies on carbon accounting. These directions are inspired by more established MAC research that may help to guide and organize MAC research in the emerging and exciting field of carbon accounting.

Keywords: carbon accounting; management accounting; management control; performance measurement; sustainability

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Hartmann, Frank G. H. and Perego, Paolo and Young-Ferris, Anna, Carbon Accounting: Challenges for Research in Management Control and Performance Measurement (October 30, 2013). Forthcoming in Abacus, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2347407 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2347407
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
M A Abernethy , C H Guthrie
An Empirical Assessment of the "Fit" between Strategy and Management Information System Design
Accounting and Finance , volume 34 , issue 2 Posted: 1994
Crossref
T Ahrens , J F Dent
Accounting and Organizations: Realizing the Richness of Field Research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 Posted: 1998
P Archel , M Fernandez , C Larrinaga
The Organizational and Operational Boundaries of Triple Bottom Line Reporting: A Survey
Environmental Management , volume 41 , issue 1 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Australian Government
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Regulations Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
552
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,242
RANK
114,866
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies