Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
קוים מנחים להכנה ולהצגה של תקציב בארגונים שלא למטרות רווח
(Guidelines for the Preparation of Budgets in Not-for-Profit Organizations)

37 Pages Posted: 12 Nov 2013 Last revised: 18 Mar 2016

Elli Malki

Financial-Tip; Rothberg International School of the HU - MA in Nonprofit Management and Leadership; Hebrew University - M.A. in Management of Nonprofit and Community Organizations

Date Written: November 11, 2013

Abstract

The English version of this paper can be found at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1667575

תקציר בעברית: התקציב הוא אחד מכלי הניהול העיקריים שעומדים לרשות הנהלת הארגון ומשמש להקצאת משאבים יעילה, ולמעקב אחרי התקדמות הביצוע ביחס לתכנון. למרות חשיבותו הרבה של התקציב, ארגונים רבים פועלים ללא תקציב בכלל, או עם תקציב שמשמש רק לצורך גיוס משאבים. מטרתו של מסמך זה היא להציע קווים מנחים לתקציב נכון שמשרת הן את הנהלת הארגון והן את שאר בעלי העניין החיצוניים לארגון.

English Abstract: This paper in the Hebrew version of "Guidelines for the Preparation of Budgets in Not-for-Profit Organizations" (WPS 1667575). The paper presents guidelines for the preparation of budgets that can serve all the aspects of the organization's activity. More specifically the budget should provide the organization's management with tools for decision making, risk management, measuring efficiency and the ability to present a cleat picture of the organization's activities to internal and external stakeholders. The adoption of these guidelines may benefit both nonprofits and their donors. Nonprofits will be able to improve the way they manage their programs while donors will be able to get a clearer picture of the organization and to simplify their procedures for grant applications.

Note: Downloadable document is in Hebrew.

Keywords: תקציב, עמותות, מלכ"רים, ניהול פיננסי

JEL Classification: L3, L31, M2

Suggested Citation:

Malki, Elli, קוים מנחים להכנה ולהצגה של תקציב בארגונים שלא למטרות רווח
(Guidelines for the Preparation of Budgets in Not-for-Profit Organizations) (November 11, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2352196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2352196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,304
RANK
584,242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies