Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Balanced Scorecard Model for Performance Excellence in Saudi Arabia's Higher Education Sector

International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol.11, No.3/4, pp. 255-280.

Posted: 13 Nov 2013 Last revised: 3 Sep 2015

Tariq Hassaneen Ismail

Faculty of Commerce

Mansour Al-Thaoiehie

College of Business & Economics

Date Written: November 11, 2013

Abstract

This paper’s main objective is to introduce a Balanced Scorecard Model (BSC) which fits Saudi Arabia’s higher education institutions. We used questionnaires to obtain the opinions of respondents of public and private Saudi universities on the suggested key performance indicators (KPIs) derived from using the dimensions of the BSC of Kaplan and Norton (1992) with adaptations. The frequencies of recommended KPIs provided the basis for discussion. The findings revealed that most KPIs, recommended by respondents, were related to the customer and internal business process perspectives, whilst they did not recommend most indicators related to the learning and growth financial perspectives. Furthermore, most indicators had significant differences according to the type and age of the universities.

This paper extends previous studies on measuring performance excellence in the higher education sector by considering a set if KPIs which fit educational systems in emerging economics. The findings would help the management of Saudi universities as well as policy makers in the Saudi Ministry of Higher Education to: (i) define the possibility of adopting a BSC model to drive performance; and (ii) identify the need to a benchmarking of KPIs which fit both public and private universities.

Keywords: Balanced scorecard; key performance indicators; customer perspective; internal business process perspective; learning and growth perspective; financial and economic perspective; higher education sector; Saudi Arabia

JEL Classification: M14, M20, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Ismail, Tariq Hassaneen and Al-Thaoiehie, Mansour, A Balanced Scorecard Model for Performance Excellence in Saudi Arabia's Higher Education Sector (November 11, 2013). International Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Performance Evaluation, Vol.11, No.3/4, pp. 255-280., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2353198
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,429
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies