Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of Quality of Internal Control in the US Federal Financial Management Systems

Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 12, No. 2, November 2013

13 Pages Posted: 15 Nov 2013

Nasrollah Ahadiat

California State Polytechnic University, Pomona - College of Business Administration

Date Written: November 15, 2013

Abstract

The primary purpose of this study is three-fold: to identify regulations designed to improve the United States government’s financial management, to examine the current state of the agencies’ financial statements’ audit and internal control and to investigate the changes, if any, in internal control over the past few years.

The results demonstrate that while the US Congress has been vigilant in emphasising the importance of improving internal control over the federal financial statements, most agencies’ financial management systems are still marred with significant internal control weaknesses. More work is needed to strengthen the control systems in federal government and to develop a financial management system that is capable of producing reliable financial statements, and designed to generate financial statements that are comparable across the agencies and consistent from year to year.

Keywords: finance, law

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ahadiat, Nasrollah, A Study of Quality of Internal Control in the US Federal Financial Management Systems (November 15, 2013). Journal of Law and Financial Management, Vol. 12, No. 2, November 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2354889
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
414
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,917
RANK
162,121
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Motivation, Influence & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies