Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Related Research in PPPs/PFIs: Present Contributions and Future Opportunities

Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Vol. 25, No. 5, pp, 876-924, 2012

Posted: 23 Nov 2013

Paul Andon

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Kerrie Unsworth

University of Western Australia Business School; University of Leeds - Faculty of Business

Date Written: 2012

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to review research investigating the implications of public private partnership (PPP) schemes for public investment, focusing on the role and effects of accounting as it relates to the assessment, management, control, reporting, accountability and policy direction of these arrangements. Based on this review, it aims to offer reflections on future directions for this research agenda.

Design/methodology/approach – This paper derives five research themes adapted from the PPP research agenda outlined by Broadbent and Laughlin as a framework to guide a literature-based analysis and critique of the relevant PPP literature published up to December 2010.

Findings – The review highlights the range of interesting contributions that extant accounting-related research has made to current knowledge about PPP policy and procedure. From this, concentrations of research effort are identified (its largely technical, critical, procurement-oriented and Anglo-centric focus), and opportunities for future research are proposed. With regard to the latter, the opportunities proffered have in common a need to question the nature and functioning of PPPs, consider the complexities of PPPs in action, and explore connections between research and practice.

Originality/value – The main contributions this paper makes relate to understanding the “state of the art” of accounting-related PPP research, the progress this research agenda has made in line with Broadbent and Laughlin's agenda, as well as insights into fruitful directions future research could take.

Keywords: Public Private Partnership, Private Finance Initiative, public sector accounting, public sector investment, Value for Money

Suggested Citation:

Andon, Paul and Unsworth, Kerrie, Accounting-Related Research in PPPs/PFIs: Present Contributions and Future Opportunities (2012). Accounting, Auditing and Accountability, Vol. 25, No. 5, pp, 876-924, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2356754
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,209
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies