Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Methodological Approaches to Evaluating the Effectiveness of Interbudget Relations in Subjects of the Russian Federation

18 Pages Posted: 19 Nov 2013

Anton Siluanov

Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy; Government of the Russian Federation - Ministry of Finance

Irina Starodubrovskaya

Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy

Vladimir Nazarov

Gaidar Institute for Economic Policy

Date Written: November 18, 2013

Abstract

Municipal reform in the Russian Federation represents one of the most impressive transformations achieved in the course of the 2000s. Reform addressed all aspects of the organizational activity carried on by bodies of local self-government: the territorial structure, the governmental system's organization, the spheres of competence, etc. One of the most important directions of reforming involved changes in the financial bass of local self-government.

Keywords: Russian economy, municipal reform, interbudget relations

JEL Classification: R5, R11, R12

Suggested Citation:

Siluanov, Anton and Starodubrovskaya, Irina and Nazarov, Vladimir, Methodological Approaches to Evaluating the Effectiveness of Interbudget Relations in Subjects of the Russian Federation (November 18, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2356243 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2356243
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
59
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,338
RANK
849,077
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies