Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying Data Envelopment Analysis on Accounting Data to Assess and Optimize the Efficiency of Greek Local Governments

Posted: 26 Nov 2013

Michael Doumpos

Technical University of Crete (TUC) - Department of Production Engineering and Management

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: November 26, 2013

Abstract

The efficiency and effectiveness of local governments has become one of the main points of interest in public sector administration, as decision and policy making gradually move from the central to the local level. This paper introduces an efficiency analysis framework based on accrual accounting data obtained from the local governments’ financial statements. Data envelopment analysis is used to obtain efficiency estimates, which are analyzed through a second stage regression against a set of efficiency explanatory factors. Furthermore, the optimal reallocation of the municipalities’ inputs and outputs is explored to provide policy recommendations that a central government could implement in a budget reduction context. Detailed empirical results are presented from a panel data set of Greek municipalities over the period 2002–2009.

Keywords: Local governments, efficiency, data envelopment analysis, accrual accounting data

JEL Classification: C15, H72, M40, C50, E62

Suggested Citation:

Doumpos, Michael and Cohen, Sandra, Applying Data Envelopment Analysis on Accounting Data to Assess and Optimize the Efficiency of Greek Local Governments (November 26, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2359968 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2359968
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,474
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies