Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Performance and Capacity Investment Decisions: Evidence from California Hospitals

Decision Sciences, Vol. 45 (2), p. 309-339.

48 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2013 Last revised: 10 Aug 2014

Ge Bai

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Sylvia Hsingwen Hsu

York University - Schulich School of Business

Ranjani Krishnan

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: May 14, 2013

Abstract

Capacity decisions involve tradeoffs between the cost of capacity and the opportunity costs of lost sales. Accounting researchers posit that accounting performance provides sufficient information about these tradeoffs and thus can be used to formulate simple rules to assist capacity decisions. Empirical research has not examined the role of accounting information in capacity investment decisions at the department level in a multi-product firm in the presence of social costs. Empirical analyses using department-level data from California hospitals for the period 1998-2005 show that hospitals are more likely to make capacity investments in departments with high accounting performance. However, in the presence of demand variability, the association between accounting performance and capacity investment is attenuated because of the resulting increase in noise in accounting performance measures. Thus the weight on accounting performance as a decision tool for capital investments reduces when there is demand variability. Another factor that reduces the weight on accounting performance is capacity utilization. Higher capacity utilization can lead to turning away or rerouting of patients to other hospitals and negatively impacts reputation and quality of care, which increases the hospital’s social costs. Hence, hospitals do not require high accounting performance before investing in a department with high capacity utilization. This empirical evidence of the role of accounting performance in capacity investment decisions fills a gap in the capacity investment literature and furthers our understanding of the interactions between accounting performance and the operational determinants of firms’ capacity investment behavior.

Keywords: Accounting, Performance Measurement Systems, Capacity Management, Health Care

Suggested Citation:

Bai, Ge and Hsu, Sylvia Hsingwen and Krishnan, Ranjani, Accounting Performance and Capacity Investment Decisions: Evidence from California Hospitals (May 14, 2013). Decision Sciences, Vol. 45 (2), p. 309-339., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2362070
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
A B Abel
Optimal investment under uncertainty
American Economic Review , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 228 - 233 Posted: 1983
D Acemoglu , A Finkelstein
Input and technology choices in regulated industries: Evidence from the health care sector
Journal of Political Economics , volume 116 , issue 5 , p. 837 - 880 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Estimated useful lives of depreciable hospital assets
American Hospital Association (AHA Posted: 2008
M Anderson , O Asdemir , A Tripathy
Use of precedent and antecedent information in strategic cost management
Journal of Business Research , volume 66 , issue 5 , p. 643 - 650 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Brian D. Cadman , Elena Patel
<p>The Consequences of Regulating Ownership for <span>Profitable Tax-Exempt Organizations</span></p>
64 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2022 · Last revised: 2 Oct 2025 · Downloads: 142
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Robert H. Davidson , Adam W. Du Pon , Hari Ramasubramanian
Don’t Get to the Point. Overprecision in Management Forecasts.
Under review. · 48 Pages · Posted: 8 Dec 2023 · Last revised: 13 Sep 2025 · Downloads: 257
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Shuo Sun , Dennis De Widt , Richard Baylis
Innovation in Capital Funding by Non-Profit Hospitals During Austerity: Evidence from the English National Health Service
YBARE-D-24-01030 · 28 Pages · Posted: 5 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 35
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,127
RANK
325,828
3 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Johns Hopkins Carey Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies