Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Accounting Information Quality and Decision-Usefulness of Governmental Financial Reporting When Becoming More Accrual Like: Evidence of a Change from Cash to Modified Cash

Cohen, S. and Karatzimas, S. "Accounting information quality and decision-usefulness of governmental financial reporting: Moving from Cash to Modified Cash", Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 95-113

Posted: 18 Dec 2013 Last revised: 26 Apr 2017

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: December 16, 2013

Abstract

In this study we analyze the quality and perceived usefulness of financial reporting at the central government level by applying a methodology based on both private and public sector literature. We assess the quality and decision usefulness of Greek central government financial statements under the former system of cash accounting and the recently adopted system of modified cash accounting. The perceptions of ninety five respondents grouped under four main user categories and collected through an advanced web-based questionnaire are used for this purpose. The evaluation is conducted within the wider debate on the benefits associated with the move to full accruals. While the move to modified cash improved - albeit below optimum level - the qualitative characteristics of reported financial information, expertise in public sector accounting affects the views on quality and perceived usefulness expressed by respondents.

Keywords: accounting information quality, accrual accounting, cash-basis of accounting, governmental financial reporting, Greece, modified cash-basis of accounting, perceived usefulness

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Evaluating the Accounting Information Quality and Decision-Usefulness of Governmental Financial Reporting When Becoming More Accrual Like: Evidence of a Change from Cash to Modified Cash (December 16, 2013). Cohen, S. and Karatzimas, S. "Accounting information quality and decision-usefulness of governmental financial reporting: Moving from Cash to Modified Cash", Meditari Accountancy Research, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 95-113, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2368484 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2368484
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,880
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies