Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Control Systems as Enabling Use in Professional Bureaucracy: Evidence from Management Reform of a Public Hospital

31 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2013

Takahito Kondo

Kyoto Sangyo University

Takeshi Nishii

Senshu University - Faculty of Commerce

Motohiro Aihara

Hokkaido University

Date Written: December 24, 2013

Abstract

This study explores the role of management control systems in a professional bureaucracy through a case study of a public hospital in Japan. Given the rapid growth of health care expenditures in the developed countries, the implementation of management control systems in public hospitals has been seen as an effective way to restrain medical costs. While previous studies show the administrative control has little effects on physician efficiency in providing medical service, our findings indicate the critical role of management control systems in improving quality and efficiency of medical care. This study applies the concept of enabling (Adler and Borys, 1996) to our case. In our case, an enabling use of management control systems helped medical doctors to understand the financial impacts of their daily clinical decisions and to provide more productive service without sacrificing service quality. Our results offer new insights into management control in the process of management reform in professional bureaucracies.

Keywords: Management Control Systems, Enabling, Professional Bureaucracy, Public Hospital

Suggested Citation:

Kondo, Takahito and Nishii, Takeshi and Aihara, Motohiro, Management Control Systems as Enabling Use in Professional Bureaucracy: Evidence from Management Reform of a Public Hospital (December 24, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2371679 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2371679
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
M A Abernethy , P Brownell
The Role of Budgets in Organizations Facing Strategic Change: an Exploratory Study, Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 204 Posted: 1999
Crossref
M A Abernethy , W F Chua , J Grafton , H Mahama
Accounting and Control in Health Care: Behavioral, Organisational, Sociological and Critical Perspectives
Handbooks of Management Accounting Research , volume 2 , p. 805 - 829 Posted: 2006
Crossref
M A Abernethy , A M Lillis
Interdependencies in Organization Design: A Test in Hospitals
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 107 - 129 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
The Relationship between Organization Structure and Management Control in Hospitals: An Elaboration and Test of Mintzberg's Professional Bureaucracy Model
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 18 - 33 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Yanjie Yu , Kevin M. Baird , Amy Tung
Human resource management in Australian hospitals: the role of controls in influencing the effectiveness of performance management systems
The International Journal of Human Resource Management , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 920 Posted: 2021
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
529
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,186
RANK
121,135
1 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies