Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Managerialism and Profession-Based Logic - The Use of Accounting Information in Changing Hospitals

Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2013

Inger Pettersen

Trondheim Business School

Elsa Solstad

Høgskolen i Harstad - Harstad University College

Date Written: February 6, 2013

Abstract

The hospital sector has undergone significant management reforms over the last decades. These reforms include more use of accounting information. This paper focuses on the kinds of logic that guide clinical managers’ perception of their management control practices when including accounting information in decisions. A survey study was undertaken among clinical managers, and it was completed by interviews to go deeper into the management control processes in three large hospitals in the middle and northern parts of Norway. We found that there is a triangle of logic which may change and form different patterns, according to different contexts and variations in professional background.

Keywords: Clinical managers, accounting information, professional logic, context

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Pettersen, Inger and Solstad, Elsa, Managerialism and Profession-Based Logic - The Use of Accounting Information in Changing Hospitals (February 6, 2013). Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2372515
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
R N Anthony , D W Young
Management Control in Non Profit Organisations Posted: 2003
J Broadbent , R Laughlin
Performance Management Systems: A Conceptual Model
Management Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 283 - 295 Posted: 2009
Crossref
J Broadbent , R Laughlin
Developing Empirical Research in Accounting: An Example Informed by the Habermasian Approach
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 10 , issue 5 , p. 622 - 648 Posted: 1997
Crossref
N Brunsson
The Organisation of Hypocrisy: Talk, Decisions and Actions in Organisations Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,260
RANK
456,685
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies