Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Auditing Practices in Nongovernmental Organizations: Evidence from Fiji

Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 69-77

10 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2014

Arvind Patel

University of South Pacific

Pranil Prasad

University of the South Pacific

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

This paper examines the accounting and auditing practices in non-governmental organizations. It seeks to understand accounting processes and reporting practices in non-governmental organizations. Nongovernmental organizations have become important institutions in world affairs but accounting research has not developed significant interest in their operations and accounting practices. We use content analysis on the annual reports of 20 non-governmental organizations operating in Fiji. The results show variations in the accounting and auditing practices of the non-governmental organizations. Further analysis indicates that a number of factors influence the accounting and auditing practices of nongovernmental organizations. Our analysis shows that financial reporting practices are in part shaped by the requirements of donor agencies and influence of specific stakeholder groups. We also find that the need to legitimize their operations also influences the accounting and auditing practices of nongovernmental organizations. This paper contributes to the limited empirical research on the accounting and auditing practices of non-governmental organizations in developing markets.

Keywords: Non-governmental Organizations, Accounting, Auditing

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Patel, Arvind and Prasad, Pranil, Accounting and Auditing Practices in Nongovernmental Organizations: Evidence from Fiji (2014). Accounting & Taxation, v. 6 (1) p. 69-77, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2391382
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
N Alvey
From Chantry to Oxfam: a short history of charity and charity legislation
J Posted: 1991
R Bekkers
Trust, accreditation and philanthropy in the Netherlands
The 31st Arnova Conference Posted: 1981
Crossref
J Cordery , R Baskerville-Morley
Charity financial reporting regulation: A comparison of the United Kingdom and her former colony Posted: 2005
S Dellaportas , J &amp; Langton , B West
Financial reporting and accountability in charitable organizations Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
750
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,385
RANK
77,478
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies