Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Control and its Impact on Organizational Performance - An Empirical Study of J/Municipal Council

Competency Building Strategies in Business and Technology (2011) Volume II, Sri Sai Ram Institute of Management Studies, Chennai.

18 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2014

Rathiranee Yogendrarajah

University of Jaffna

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

In the modern management, financial control is very important. If the financial control is effective, the organization will grow effective in future. Financial control is one of the performance control tool that are used by managers. Today many Public organizations provide services to the public. Jaffna municipal council is a public organization that deals with people of Jaffna city to fulfill their daily needs. The Jaffna municipal council provides different services to the public and it faces many difficulties to manage these activities. However it serves with the help of government grants and other funds from various non government organizations it faces some problems regarding finance and other physical resources. The purpose of this study is to analyze how the financial control of the Jaffna municipal Council affects its organizational performance. For this purpose two hypothesis were tested. One is “Effective budgetary control has positive impact on its organizational performance” and other is “Effective financial control leads to better organizational performance”. To test this hypothesis the data were obtained through primary data such as interview, interrogation and discussions with financial officers and from annual reports and statements as secondary data. Financial information is analyzed by using various analysis methods. Ratio analysis, percentage analysis and gap analysis are used to measure effectiveness of financial control. Organizational performance is measured by budgetary control with the significance of variance. In this research, when the budgetary control is ineffective the organizational performance based on budgetary control is worst. And the effective financial control leads to better organizational performance. Finally, this research has proved that there is positive relationship between financial control and organizational performance and there is positive control and relationship between budgetary control and organizational performance. So, It can be concluded the public organization should take attention in the financial control to manage the activities effectively.

Keywords: financial control, organizational performance, budgetary control

Suggested Citation:

Yogendrarajah, Rathiranee, Financial Control and its Impact on Organizational Performance - An Empirical Study of J/Municipal Council (2011). Competency Building Strategies in Business and Technology (2011) Volume II, Sri Sai Ram Institute of Management Studies, Chennai. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2392682
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
8 References
M Dutta
Management Control Systems
S. Chand & Company Ltd Posted: 2002
Anthony Robert , N , Govindarajah Vijay
Management Control System Posted: 2004
A Atkison
Management Accounting Posted: 2001
K S Sastry , Dhameja Nand
The practice of Management Accounting Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,170
RANK
45,078
8 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies