Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Community-Based Enterprises in Italy: Definition and Governance Models

23 Pages Posted: 14 Mar 2014

Federica Bandini

University of Bologna

Renato Medei

Management Department

Claudio Travaglini

University of Bologna - Department of Management

Date Written: January 13, 2014

Abstract

In recent years, a new form of co-operative business is taking shape in Italy: the community-based enterprise, a community acting collectively at both management and business level, to pursue common goals. Community-based enterprises grow on a system of networks of free relationships among the members of a local community, with a high degree of reciprocity; when individuals work together in a business systems, relationships become social relationships. The complex of the community members’ relationships, objectives and expectations towards the company reflects necessarily on governance models that should follow a multistakeholder pattern. Multistakeholdership implies a direct and active participation of subjects bearing conflicting interests in the decisional process. This paper describes community-based enterprises in Italy, draws their governance models, and emphasizes how the passage from opening to different stakeholders to implementation of multistakeholder governance is very slow and difficult to put into practice.

Keywords: Community-based enterprises, Cooperatives, Corporate governance

JEL Classification: M1, M14

Suggested Citation:

Bandini, Federica and Medei, Renato and Travaglini, Claudio, Community-Based Enterprises in Italy: Definition and Governance Models (January 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408335 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408335
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
C Ansell , A Gash
Collaborative Governance in Theory and Practice
Journal of public administration research and theory , volume 18 , p. 543 - 571 Posted: 2007
Crossref
I Barberini , M Accardo
Come vola il calabrone
Cooperazione, etica e sviluppo , volume 388 Posted: 2009
J L Callen , H Falk
Agency and efficiency in nonprofit organizations: The case of" specific health focus" charities
Accounting Review , p. 48 - 65 Posted: 1993
J M Daley
An action guide for nonprofit board diversity
Journal of Community Practice , volume 10 , p. 33 - 54 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
222
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,328
RANK
314,322
3 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies