Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mind the GAAP Service Performance Reporting by New Zealand's Public Service

39 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2014

Rodney Dormer

Victoria University of Wellington

Date Written: March 14, 2014

Abstract

This paper compares the requirements for service performance reporting, contained in the Public Finance Act 1989 and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP), with the actual performance information reported by a sample of New Zealand government departments. It suggests that differences between what is actually reported and what the legislation and GAAP require is the result of a number of related institutional and political factors.

Keywords: service performance, accountability, GAAP

JEL Classification: L30, M40

Suggested Citation:

Dormer, Rodney, Mind the GAAP Service Performance Reporting by New Zealand's Public Service (March 14, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2408885 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2408885
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Ano References
What"s measured is what matters: Targets and gaming in the English public health care system
Public Administration , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 517 - 538 Posted: 2006
M Bovens
Analysing and Assessing Accountability: A Conceptual Framework
European Law Journal , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 447 - 468 Posted: 2007
Crossref
K Brady
What is the state of public sector reporting, and what is it saying about public sector management? Adress to the Managing and Measuring Performance Seminar Posted: 2009-07
J Broadbent , Laughlin
Accounting Control and Controlling Accounting Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,289
RANK
766,148
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies