Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Municipal Governance on Cities' Audit Outcomes

47 Pages Posted: 1 Apr 2014 Last revised: 8 May 2014

Amanda Peterson

East Carolina University

Date Written: May 2014

Abstract

The objective of this study is to analyze the impact of municipal governance on cities’ audit outcomes. While corporate governance has been studied at length, the structure and role of governance in a municipal setting is less explored. In this paper, five regression models are used to estimate the relationship between municipal governance and audit outcomes, measured by financial statement audit and single audit reportable conditions, comprised of internal control weakness disclosures and compliance deficiencies. Results show that governance factors are significant predictors of audit outcomes in a municipal setting. This study broadens existing municipal accounting theory as the first of its kind to explore the relationship between municipal governance and audit outcomes. Furthermore, significant evidence is found to extend results from the private sector to a municipal setting, and previously unexplored municipal governance variables are introduced.

Keywords: municipal governance; internal control; municipal accounting; municipal audit

Suggested Citation:

Peterson, Amanda, The Impact of Municipal Governance on Cities' Audit Outcomes (May 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2417971 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2417971
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
John L. Abernathy , Tony Kang , Gopal Krishnan
Audit Committee Expertise and Financial Analysts’ and Investors’ Ability to Anticipate Future Earnings
Pages: 59 Posted: 12 Oct 2011
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
A Adsera , C Boix , M Payne
Are You Being Served? Political Accountability and Quality of Government
Economics, and Organization , volume 19 , p. 445 - 90 Posted: 2003
Crossref
J Alt , B Mesquita , S Rose
Disentangling accountability and competence in elections: Evidence from U.S. term limits
Journal of Politics , volume 73 , issue 1 , p. 171 - 86 Posted: 2011
Crossref
H Ashbaugh-Skaife , D Collins , W Kinney , Jr , R Lafond
The Effect of SOX Internal Control Deficiencies on Firm Risk and Cost of Equity
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 47 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 43 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
208
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,541
RANK
334,743
3 Citations
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies