Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Framing Performance Management of Acute-Care Hospitals by Interlacing NPM and Institutional Perspectives

Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 5 Apr 2014

Rosemarie Kelly

South East Technological University

Gerardine Doyle

University College Dublin (UCD)

Sheila O'Donohoe

Waterford Institute of Technology

Date Written: April 4, 2014

Abstract

This paper develops a theoretical framework which combines ideas underlying new public management (NPM) with new institutional sociology (NIS) to explore the development of performance management during a period of healthcare reform. The framework distinguishes three categories of explanatory variables; NPM antecedents, the institutional environment and institutional elements within a three tier level of analysis; economic/political, organisational field and organisational unit level. Evidence to support the relevance and appropriateness of this framework is gathered within the Irish health service using in-depth interviews, a questionnaire and documentary data. The application of the framework highlights that all antecedents of NPM can be influential and that all institutional elements can play a role at the three different levels of analysis.

Keywords: theoretical framework, performance management, NPM, institutional theory, hospitals

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Kelly, Rosemarie and Doyle, Gerardine and O' Donohoe, Sheila Frances, Framing Performance Management of Acute-Care Hospitals by Interlacing NPM and Institutional Perspectives (April 4, 2014). Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420450
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies