Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability and Expertise in Public Sector Risk Management: A Case Study

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 5 Apr 2014

Tommaso Palermo

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: December 19, 2013

Abstract

This paper examines the adoption of a formal risk management framework in a large public sector organisation. The paper shows the relevance of risk management as an accountability tool, extended by means of disclosure to the scrutiny of distant others. The paper also reveals how the use of risk management is dependent on relational skills, knowledge of business activities and professional experience. Risk management can be seen as both a context-dependent device and as a technique abstracted from a context. The paper discusses how risk officers deal with this complexity, addressing the expectations of multiple organisational actors and external entities.

Keywords: Risk management, accountability, expertise, public sector

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Palermo, Tommaso, Accountability and Expertise in Public Sector Risk Management: A Case Study (December 19, 2013). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2420361
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies