Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Modernizing Government Accounting Standards in Greece: A Case of 'Garbage Can' Decision-Making

Public Money & Management, Vol. 36, No. 3, pp. 173-180

Posted: 24 May 2014 Last revised: 12 Feb 2016

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Purpose: In this paper we examine the standard-setting process at the central government level in a country operating under special circumstances of financial strain. More specifically, we analyze the decision-making process under which the new modified cash-based set of accounting standards was developed in the Greek central government.

Design/methodology/approach: We develop a theoretical framework combining public choice theory with the garbage can model. The public choice theory helps us understand the incentives of the various involved actors that played a role in the reform process. The garbage can model provides insights that facilitate the understanding of the choices made while deciding on the new set of standards. The theoretical framework is informed by interviews and informal discussions with members of the commission that developed the new set of standards as well as by relevant archival data.

Findings: The findings indicate the lack of effective monitoring of the process by both politicians and external resource providers. The set of standards developed is largely the outcome of the incentives and the cooperation of bureaucrats and consultants. The results provide evidence of unclear technology, fluid participation and problematic preferences, which indicate decision-making through the "garbage can".

Originality/value: We examine governmental accounting standard-setting and decision-making in a country: (a) operating under resource dependency, (b) dealing with a vortex of financial and administrative reforms, and (c) characterized by a deeply bureaucratic public sector.

Keywords: central government, decision-making, garbage can model, Greece, governmental accounting, public choice theory, standard-setting

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Modernizing Government Accounting Standards in Greece: A Case of 'Garbage Can' Decision-Making (2016). Public Money & Management, Vol. 36, No. 3, pp. 173-180, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2441079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2441079
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,236
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Anthropology eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies