Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit Partner Tenure and Reported Internal Control Reporting Quality: U.S. Evidence from the Not-for-Profit Sector

Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2446677

58 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2014 Last revised: 2 Aug 2017

Brian Fitzgerald

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Thomas C. Omer

University of Nebraska at Lincoln - School of Accountancy

Anne Thompson

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

Date Written: August 12, 2016

Abstract

This study examines the effects of audit partner tenure and audit partner changes on internal control reporting quality for large U.S. not-for-profit (NFP) organizations. Regulators contend that audit partners lose their objectivity over successive audits, reducing audit quality. A large body of research has examined this issue, primarily in non-U.S. jurisdictions, with mixed results. We examine the associations between audit partner tenure and audit partner changes and the incidence of reported internal control deficiencies (ICDs), the quality of internal control reports (following PCAOB audit quality indicators), and the severity of reported ICDs. We find negative associations between audit partner tenure and the incidence of reported ICDs, the quality of internal control reports, and the severity of reported ICDs. Together, these findings indicate that internal control reporting quality deteriorates with audit partner tenure. However, we find no association between audit partner changes and internal control reporting, which is consistent with partners lacking client specific knowledge in their first year with a client. Finally, we find no association between either audit partner tenure or changes and the likelihood of remediation. Our findings contribute large-sample U.S. evidence on the association between audit partner tenure and internal control reporting quality and provide useful information to government regulators, NFP boards charged with the oversight of the external auditor and internal controls, and NFP stakeholders.

Keywords: Internal control opinions, audit partner rotation and tenure, audit quality, not-for-profit sector

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Fitzgerald, Brian and Omer, Thomas C. and Thompson, Anne, Audit Partner Tenure and Reported Internal Control Reporting Quality: U.S. Evidence from the Not-for-Profit Sector (August 12, 2016). Mays Business School Research Paper No. 2446677, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2446677 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2446677
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
76 References
AIPCA)
Commission on Auditors' Responsibilities Report, Conclusions, and Recommendations Posted: 1978
AIPCA). 1992. Statement of Position Regarding Mandatory Rotation of Audit Firms of Publicly Held Companies
Statement on Auditing Standards 107: Audit risk and materiality in conducting an audit, AU Section 312 Posted: 2006
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). 2010. The AICPA Audit Committee Toolkit: Not-for-profit organizations
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
453
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,721
RANK
146,022
76 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies