Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Tiebout Hypothesis: Implications for Municipal Financial Reporting

Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance, Fall 1979, 3(1): 31-41

Posted: 12 Jul 2014

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 1979

Abstract

The current measurement focus in municipal financial report­ing is "revenue minus expenditure" or the inflow and outflow of liquid financial resources on a modified accrual basis. One of the issues raised, in the FASB Discussion Memorandum on a concep­tual framework for reporting by nonbusiness organizations, is whether users need an "operating statement." An "operating statement" implies a shift in measurement focus to "revenue minus expense" on a full accrual basis complete with a "bottom line." This article utilizes economic theory (the Tiebout hypoth­esis) to build a case as to how and why an operating statement could provide potentially useful information to one user group. local taxpayer-voters (constituents).

Keywords: Municipal financial reporting, Tiebout hypothesis

JEL Classification: A12, M41

Suggested Citation:

Raman, K. K., The Tiebout Hypothesis: Implications for Municipal Financial Reporting (1979). Journal of Accounting Auditing and Finance, Fall 1979, 3(1): 31-41, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2464157
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
853
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies