Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Whole of Government Accounts in Brazil

13 Pages Posted: 16 Jul 2014 Last revised: 12 Aug 2014

Ricardo Lopes Cardoso

Brazilian School of Public and Business Administration; Rio de Janeiro State Univ., FAF

Andre C. B. Aquino

School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities - University of Sao Paulo; School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities - University of Sao Paulo

Jose Alexandre Pigatto

Santa Maria Federal University

Date Written: August 11, 2014

Abstract

This paper presents the origins, actual situation and future perspectives about the whole of public sector accounts (WPSA) in Brazil. We collected evidences from financial reports and regulation, and aiming to capture the implementation process path we interviewed technicians from the National Treasury Secretariat (NTS), other technicians and politicians that have participated in the design of relevant legislation and in the preparation of earlier and current versions of Brazil’s WPSA. The WPSA in Brazil was driven by a fiscal agenda in the year 2000 and preceded reforms towards IPSAS. Consolidation is required by law since 1964 for central and local governments, but the first public sector consolidated report, including assets and liabilities at large, was produced only in 2001. The paper describes the implementation and development process over 14 years of WPSA report. Notwithstanding, until date the Brazilian public sector does not prepare consolidations (properly said), but an aggregation of balances (not performing any consolidation adjustment).

Keywords: whole of public sector accounts, public sector, consolidation, Brazil

JEL Classification: M41, H70, H60, H50

Suggested Citation:

Cardoso, Ricardo Lopes and Aquino, Andre C. B. and Pigatto, Jose Alexandre M, The Whole of Government Accounts in Brazil (August 11, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2466494 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2466494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
L Alston , M Melo , B Mueller , C Pereira
Who decides on public expenditures? A political economy analysis of the budget process: the case of Brazil
Economic and Social Study Series Posted: 2005
I Brusca , V Montesinos
International experiences in whole of government financial reporting: lesson-drawing for , volume 29 , p. 243 - 250 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Chow , C Humphrey , Moll , J
New development: In pursuit of WGA-Research findings from the UK , volume 29 , p. 257 - 260 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D S Chow , C Humphrey , Moll , J
Developing whole of government accounting in the UK: grand claims, practical complexities and a suggested future research agenda
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 27 - 54 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
154
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,995
RANK
439,313
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies