Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance in Not-for-Profit Hospitals: Effects on CEO Compensation and Performance

23 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2014

Frans Schaepkens

Nyenrode Business University

Roland F. Spekle

Nyenrode Business University

Date Written: July 17, 2014

Abstract

We examine the effect of corporate governance on both CEO compensation and several financial performance indicators in a sample of Dutch hospitals. In a series of pooled regressions, we find evidence that supports earlier findings in the literature. For instance, our results indicate that the size of the supervisory board is associated with lower CEO compensation and higher profitability, suggesting that in the hospital sector, larger boards are more effective from a governance point of view (Aggerwal et al., 2012). We also find a positive association between supervisory board compensation and CEO recompense, which may imply that better paid supervisors are less effective in disciplining CEO rent extraction (Cardinaels, 2009). However, these governance factors add little to the explanation of the variance in CEO compensation and financial performance. Moreover, if we simultaneously correct for both serial and cross-sectional dependence, we no longer find any significant effects for the governance variables included in our study. These results demonstrate the importance of controlling for firm- and year-fixed effects, and suggest that not doing so may lead one to overstate or misinterpret the effects of governance choice.

Keywords: Governance, Hospitals, CEO Compensation, Performance

JEL Classification: I10, G34, L31

Suggested Citation:

Schaepkens, Frans and Spekle, Roland F., Governance in Not-for-Profit Hospitals: Effects on CEO Compensation and Performance (July 17, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2467496 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2467496
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
M A Abernethy , E Vagnoni
Power, organization design and managerial behaviour
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 29 , p. 207 - 225 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: size, performance and managerial incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 466 - 487 Posted: 2012
Crossref
J A Alexander , B J Weiner , R J Bogue
Changes in the structure, composition, and activity of hospital governing boards, 1989-1997: evidence from two national surveys
The Milbank Quarterly , volume 79 , p. 253 - 279 Posted: 2001
Crossref
J A Alexander , S D Lee
Does governance matter? Board configuration and performance in non-for-profit hospitals
The Milbank Quarterly , volume 84 , p. 733 - 758 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,240
RANK
340,955
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies