Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Association between Accounting Performance and Constituent Response in Political Markets

32 Pages Posted: 24 Jul 2014

Michael E. Bradbury

Independent

Tom Scott

Auckland University of Technology

Date Written: July 22, 2014

Abstract

Since 2006, New Zealand local authorities (councils) have been required to disclose long-term accounting data relating to forecast operating revenue and expenses. The production and disclosure of council planning data is based on the perceived accountability of the council to its constituents. This paper examines whether characteristics of the 2007 and 2010 New Zealand council elections are associated with accounting performance, measured as the unexpected difference in operating expenditure. We find that that accounting performance and the sign of accounting performance (i.e., expenditure over-runs) are associated with greater councillor re-election. Furthermore, accounting performance is also associated with greater voter turnout. Thus we find that accounting, in an electoral context, has both information content and conveys good/bad news to voters.

Keywords: Local government elections, accountability, accrual accounting, planning, political markets

JEL Classification: M40, M41, O56

Suggested Citation:

Bradbury, Michael E. and Scott, Tom, The Association between Accounting Performance and Constituent Response in Political Markets (July 22, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2470113 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2470113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
T Aidt
Economic voting and information
Electoral Studies , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 349 - 362 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Report on the committee on accounting in the public sector: 1974-1976
The Accounting Review , volume 52 , p. 33 - 52 Posted: 1977
R Anthony
Financial Accounting in Nonbusiness Organizations, FASB Posted: 1978
Crossref
W R Baber
Toward a framework for evaluating the role of accounting and auditing in political markets: The influence of political markets
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 73 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
111
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,544
RANK
572,233
3 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies