Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reactions of Nonprofit Monitors to Financial Reporting Problems

Journal of Financial Reporting, 2018

Posted: 26 Jul 2014 Last revised: 20 Oct 2018

Jeffrey J. Burks

University of Notre Dame

Date Written: June 15, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates how those in charge of monitoring nonprofits – donors and boards of directors – react to disclosure of financial reporting problems (accounting errors and internal control deficiencies). I find that donations tend to fall following disclosure of severe errors and control deficiencies. Furthermore, donations fall following errors only when they are disclosed in the report that is most widely accessible by donors. Turnover of chief financial officers (CFOs), representing a possible response of boards to financial reporting problems, increases following disclosure of errors. CFO turnover is not robustly related to control deficiencies. Overall, the results are consistent with donors and boards being willing to take action in response to concerns about financial reporting quality, thus indicating that they consider financial reporting important and that they act on signals of low quality. Interviews with nonprofit board members suggest that the value of error-free financial reporting derives less from the decision-usefulness of the information and more from demonstrating that the organization is competent and trustworthy.

Keywords: nonprofit, public charity, accounting error, restatement, significant deficiency, material weakness

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Burks, Jeffrey J., Reactions of Nonprofit Monitors to Financial Reporting Problems (June 15, 2018). Journal of Financial Reporting, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2471138 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2471138
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,340
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies