Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Creative Accounting: A Literature Review

21 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2014

Ricardo Lopes Cardoso

Brazilian School of Public and Business Administration; Rio de Janeiro State Univ., FAF

Bernardo Guelber Fajardo

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) - Brazilian School of Public and Business Administration (EBAPE)

Date Written: February 27, 2014

Abstract

Creative Accounting (CA) is not a new issue in Accounting literature. Several studies and literature reviews identify the opportunities, incentives, methods and objectives that guide such a practice in the private sector. Very few studies, however, are found in the public sector literature, regarding it’s conceivable that public sector organizations also face incentives and have the opportunities to manipulate their financial and budgetary performance. Indeed, there is a lack of comprehension about creative accounting in the public sector that must be filled by literature. This study aims to contribute to this emergent debate trough a literature review, analyzing published research by seven perspectives: (i) journal and year of publication; (ii) geographic area and period of analysis; (iii) the methodology and method of analysis applied; (iv) the subject of research (i.e., who practiced CA); (v) the incentives and opportunities for CA; (vi) the target-user of mislead information; (vii) the CA techniques reported and the approach applied to assess CA. The main findings exhibit a predominance of papers published and focusing in the European context, the papers were published on a concentrated sample of journals which editorial is predominantly based in Europe. The majority of the paper use a quantitative approach. Some interesting research opportunities are discussed in conclusion.

Keywords: Public sector, Creative accounting, Literature review

Suggested Citation:

Cardoso, Ricardo Lopes and Fajardo, Bernardo Guelber, Public Sector Creative Accounting: A Literature Review (February 27, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2476593 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2476593
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
J Ballantine , J Forker , M Greenwood
Earnings management in English NHS hospital trusts
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 23 , issue 4 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Benito , V Montesinos , F Bastida
An example of creative accounting in public sector: The private financing of infrastructures in Spain
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 19 , p. 963 - 98 Posted: 2008
Crossref
K Bernoth , G Wolff
Scottish Journal of Political Economy , volume 55 , issue 4 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D Burgstahler , I Dichev
Earnings Management to Avoid Earnings Decreases and Losses
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 99 - 126 Posted: 1997
Crossref
Load more
3 Citations
Sandra Cohen , Ioanna Malkogianni
Sustainability measures and earnings management: evidence from Greek municipalities
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume ahead-of-print , issue ahead-of-print Posted: 2021
Crossref
Serena Santis , Francesca Citro , Beatriz Cuadrado-Ballesteros , Marco Bisogno
Financial Determinants in Local Re-Election Rates
, p. 27 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Sandra Cohen , Marco Bisogno , Ioanna Malkogianni
Earnings management in local governments: the role of political factors
Journal of Applied Accounting Research , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 331 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
991
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,007
RANK
53,060
3 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies