Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Value Chain, Quality-, and Cost Management in High Cost Areas in Response to Changing Economic Incentives - Evidence From a German Hospital

Posted: 12 Aug 2014

Sabine Foster-Jackson

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Andrea Szczesny

University of Würzburg - Business Administration & Economics

Prof. Dr. Chris Ernst

University of Hohenheim - Economics and Management of Social Services

Date Written: August 1, 2014

Abstract

Background: In most developed countries, the past 30 years have witnessed a tremendous increase in the economic pressure put on hospitals by governments to increase their efficiency. While there is little doubt that high-powered reimbursement systems like capped budgets or prospective payment provide hospitals with strong incentives to reduce their costs, the resulting impact on quality remains a hotly debated issue. A main problem is that hospital response strategies to increased economic pressure are often both highly complex and displaying numerous interdependencies.

Objective: This study wants to gain some insight into this complexity by empirically exploring potential relations and interdependencies within the hospital value chain with a particular focus on operating rooms as high cost areas. Our main research question concerns the relation between short-term quality outcomes measured by the probability for a complication in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) and hospital responses to economic incentives. For the latter, we focus on risk selection activities and specialization strategies that may result in individual and/or organizational learning effects in the OR and/or economies of scale.

Methodology: Using data from a small German hospital for the 1994-2002 period, we are able to identify a point in time where economic pressure on this hospital increased considerably. We then estimate Logit models that analyze the impact of this increase in economic pressure on hospital responses in terms of efficiency and (short-term) quality.

Results: We found that for our hospital, for which extant literature already identified a specialization strategy on procedures it performed well (endoprothetic surgery) as well as a risk selection behavior by avoiding high-risk patients, these economic response strategies and short-term quality proved strategic complements. Specialization as well as a reduction in high-risk patients increased quality by reducing the probability for complications in the PACU. Interestingly, this held for both endoprothetic as well as other surgeries suggesting the existence of spillover or organizational learning effects and can hence confirm an increase in overall costs by reducing follow-up costs.

Keywords: cost pressure, rationalization, specialization, learning effects, capped budgets, hospitals, OR efficiency, deterioration of quality, follow up costs

Suggested Citation:

Foster-Jackson, Sabine and Szczesny, Andrea and Ernst, Christian Matthias, Value Chain, Quality-, and Cost Management in High Cost Areas in Response to Changing Economic Incentives - Evidence From a German Hospital (August 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2478649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2478649
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,353
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies