Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Relevance to Firm Valuation of Research and Development Expenditure in the Australian Health-Care Industry

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2014

Posted: 20 Aug 2014

Lorena Mitrione

Independent

George Tanewski

Deakin University - School of Accounting Economics and Finance

Jacqueline Birt

University of Queensland - Business School

Date Written: August 18, 2014

Abstract

The health-care industry requires large expenditure on research and development (R&D), with many projects undergoing long development cycles, usually with uncertain outcomes. Extant research has mainly concentrated on the health-care industry in the United States, where R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Previous Australian research has found mixed results in relation to R&D expenditure and changes in share price. This study investigates whether R&D expenditure reported in the health-care industry since the introduction of IAS 38 is significantly associated with share price. Results of the study show that expensed R&D is value-relevant, while a comparison of the pre and post-IAS 38 periods (including pre-global financial crisis (GFC) and GFC periods) shows a statistically significant improvement in the explanatory power of the regression model post-IAS 38, suggesting that R&D expenditure reported under the new standard IAS 38 is more useful for decision-making by investors compared with reporting under AASB 1011.

Keywords: biotechnology, capitalised, expenditure, expensed, health care, IAS 38, research and development, value relevance

Suggested Citation:

Mitrione, Lorena and Tanewski, George and Birt, Jacqueline, The Relevance to Firm Valuation of Research and Development Expenditure in the Australian Health-Care Industry (August 18, 2014). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2482400
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

IO: Empirical Studies of Firms & Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies