Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Municipal Borrowing Costs and the Differential Impact of Accounting Information Across Rating Categories

Research in Government and Nonprofit Accounting (RIGNA) 1986, 2: 261-273

Posted: 27 Aug 2014

Earl D. Benson

Western Washington University - Finance and Marketing Department

Barry R. Marks

University of Houston, Clear Lake - School of Business and Public Administration

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 1986

Abstract

Prior research (Wallace, 1981 Wilson and Howard, 1984) has implicitly as­sumed that the impact of accounting information on municipal borrowing costs is the same across all bond rating groups. This paper provides empirical evidence that the demand for accounting information is a function of default risk and suggests a means for improving the power of bond default risk models to detect accounting effects.

Keywords: Government borrowing costs, differential impact of accounting information, rating categories

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Benson, Earl D. and Marks, Barry R. and Raman, K. K., Municipal Borrowing Costs and the Differential Impact of Accounting Information Across Rating Categories (1986). Research in Government and Nonprofit Accounting (RIGNA) 1986, 2: 261-273, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2483942
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,196
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies