Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Effort as an Indicator of Fiscal Stress

Public Finance Quarterly, 1988, 16(2): 203-218

Posted: 27 Aug 2014

Earl D. Benson

Western Washington University - Finance and Marketing Department

Barry R. Marks

University of Houston, Clear Lake - School of Business and Public Administration

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 1988

Abstract

The most visible credit market measure of the fiscal health of a municipality is the credit rating. In this article we ask whether the credit rating fully incorporates the fiscal stresses faced by municipal governments. We utilize state "tax effort" as a measure of the fiscal stress faced by a municipality. The findings suggest that municipalities located in states characterized by poor fiscal health pay higher than average interest costs on their bond issues (holding credit rating constant). State "tax effort" seems to reflect elements of fiscal stress that are not adequately taken into account through the rating process.

Keywords: Governments, tax effort, fiscal stress

JEL Classification: G18, L11, L15, l51, l80, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Benson, Earl D. and Marks, Barry R. and Raman, K. K., Tax Effort as an Indicator of Fiscal Stress (1988). Public Finance Quarterly, 1988, 16(2): 203-218, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2487275
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,150
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies