Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Municipal Bond Rating Change Announcements on Seasoned Bond Prices

Municipal Finance Journal, Fall 1994, 15(3): 17-35

Posted: 30 Aug 2014

Barry R. Marks

University of Houston, Clear Lake - School of Business and Public Administration

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Earl R. Wilson

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: 1994

Abstract

In the municipal bond market, announcements of changes in general obligation bond ratings by the rating agencies are typically made con­currently with announcements of new bond issues. Hence, prior research on the information content of municipal bond rating change announcements is subject to the possible confounding effects of concurrent announcements of new bond issues. Jantscher ( 1970) con­cluded that bonds sell at prices that reflect rating changes prior to the actual change announcement. Ingram et al. (1983), on the other hand, report that municipal bond prices respond contemporaneously to rat­ing change announcements, i.e., that the market is not able to antic­ipate rating revisions. However, since Ingram et al. (1983) did not con­trol for the potential information effects of concurrent new issues, their results could be misleading, whereas Jantscher only examined new issues. This paper examines the effect of rating change announcements on municipal seasoned bond prices after controlling for the potentially confounding effects of new bond issues.

Keywords: Government rating change announcements, Seasoned bond prices

JEL Classification: g18, l11, l15, l51, l80, m40, m41, m42, m48

Suggested Citation:

Marks, Barry R. and Raman, K. K. and Wilson, Earl R., The Effect of Municipal Bond Rating Change Announcements on Seasoned Bond Prices (1994). Municipal Finance Journal, Fall 1994, 15(3): 17-35, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2488605
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,226
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies