Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Balanced Budget and Interperiod Equity: Implications for Financial Reporting

Public Fund Digest, Fall 1997, 8(2): 37-54

Posted: 3 Sep 2014

K. K. Raman

The University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 1997

Abstract

A critical issue in international financial management is that of "balancing the government's books" (The Economist 1994, p. 73). Since governmental commitments to maintaining or improving citizens' well-being are subject to re­source constraints, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (which is the accounting standard setting body for state and local governments in the U.S.) has noted the need for governments to "live within their means" and has espoused the notion of interperiod equity (IPE) as a performance measure (GASB 1987, para 59, 61). The objective of this paper is to increase the common understanding of concepts such as the balanced budget, intergenerational equity, and the relevance of IPE information, and the notion of a targeted level of service capacity as the appropriate capital maintenance concept for governments.

Keywords: Governmental financial reporting, balanced budget, interperiod equity

JEL Classification: G18, L11, L15, L51, L80, M40, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Raman, K. K., The Balanced Budget and Interperiod Equity: Implications for Financial Reporting (1997). Public Fund Digest, Fall 1997, 8(2): 37-54, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2490551
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,452
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies