Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-Exempt Hospitals & Their Communities

6 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 33

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1353

54 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2014 Last revised: 9 Jun 2015

Susannah Camic Tahk

University of Wisconsin Law School

Date Written: September 3, 2014

Abstract

Hospitals in the U.S. have long been able to obtain exemption from federal income tax because they meet the requirement known as the standard of “community benefit.” Yet lawmakers and scholars know virtually nothing about the actual workings of tax-exempt hospitals, or about whether, how, and to what extent they deliver benefits to their communities. Within the last five years, however, IRS tax return forms have started asking hospitals to quantify these benefits, as well as to give detailed information about their financial practices with respect to their patients. These new questions coincide with new requirements for tax-exempt hospitals put in place as part of 2010’s health care reform bill, the Affordable Care Act. The new tax return data offers a first-time opportunity to evaluate the workings of tax-exempt hospitals from the perspective of both the traditional requirements for tax-exempt hospitals and the 2010 reforms of the Affordable Care Act. This Article analyzes data from all tax-exempt hospitals in the U.S. in 2012 to show that tax-exempt hospitals differ widely in their provision of community benefits (and financial practices). In particular, these activities vary systematically in relation to their different notions of “community” and the characteristics of the communities where the hospitals are located. This evidence demonstrates that tax-exempt hospitals seem to be responding to the specific needs of their own communities when allocating their resources among different community-benefit activities. The data show, in addition, that while tax-exempt hospitals are generally adopting the financial policies that Congress and the IRS are requesting, hospital financial aid policies also vary by community. These findings raise several fundamental questions for lawmakers and tax policy scholars in the era of the Affordable Care Act. In particular, the findings suggest that lawmakers need to grapple seriously with how they allow tax-exempt hospitals to define their communities. For example: is it appropriate for tax-exempt hospitals merely to benefit a narrowly defined community or should they operate in terms of a broader understanding of community? In light of the new data presented, this Article considers these questions and outlines several alternatives to the “community benefit” standard to address them.

Keywords: tax, tax policy, health policy

Suggested Citation:

Camic Tahk, Susannah, Tax-Exempt Hospitals & Their Communities (September 3, 2014). 6 Columbia Journal of Tax Law 33, Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1353, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2491389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Cong Office , Pub false
NONPROFIT HOSPITALS AND THE PROVISION OF COMMUNITY BENEFITS Posted: 2006
Kenneth E Thorpe
The Impact of HMOs on Hospital-Based Uncompensated Care Posted: 2001
Crossref
Helen Schneider
Paying Their Way? Do Nonprofit Hospitals Justify Their Favorable Tax Treatment?
INQUIRY , volume 44 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Michael A Morrisey
Do Nonprofit Hospitals Pay Their Way?, 15 HEALTH AFF , volume 132 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,197
RANK
610,038
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies