Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Kallikratis Project on Accrual Basis Accounting of the First Degree Local Authorities: A Financial Analysis of the Municipalities of the Prefecture of Aitoloakarnania

5th International Conference on Accounting and Finance, 4-5 September 2014, Syros island, GREECE

8 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2014

Vassilis Smaraidos

TEI of Messolonghi; TEI of Western Greece - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of Patras - Department of Business Administration of Food and Agricultural Enterprises

Georgios L. Thanasas

Department of Management Science and Technology

Georgia Kontogeorga

University of Patras - Business Administration

Date Written: September 8, 2014

Abstract

In this paper an attempt is made to analyze the financial position of the 7 first degree local authorities of the Prefecture of Aitoloakarnania after Kallikratis Project. For this purpose, all municipalities of the Prefecture were chosen, for the years 2011-2012 (the first years of the implication of Kallikratis project) for analyzing 18 financial ratios. The results showed that there might be an inefficient management of the local authorities which probably leads to future cash flow problems. Furthermore, there are indications that cash inflows are collected too slowly compared to payments.

Keywords: Financial Ratios, Municipalities, Kallikratis Project, Greece.

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Smaraidos, Vassilis and Smaraidos, Vassilis and Thanasas, Georgios L. and Kontogeorga, Georgia, The Impact of Kallikratis Project on Accrual Basis Accounting of the First Degree Local Authorities: A Financial Analysis of the Municipalities of the Prefecture of Aitoloakarnania (September 8, 2014). 5th International Conference on Accounting and Finance, 4-5 September 2014, Syros island, GREECE, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2493280
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
K Athanasopoulos , A Georgopoulos , A Bellas
Posted: 2007
A Bellas , G Kontogeorga , G Thanasas , K Papadatos , D Goulas
Deviations of Budgetary Data and outcomes of the First Degree Local Authorities: The case of the local authorities in the Prefecture of Achaia for the period
Proceedings of the 3 rd International Conference on Accounting and Finance , p. 370 - 380 Posted: 2005
B Benito , I Brusca , V Montesinos
The IPSAS Approach: a Useful Tool for Accounting Reform in Europe?
Innovations in Governmetnal Accounting , p. 85 - 98 Posted: 2002
J Christiaens , J Rommel
Accrual Accounting Reforms: Only for the Businesslike (Parts of) Governments
Financial Accountability and Management , volume 24 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 75 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,079
RANK
403,275
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies