Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Statement Analysis of the Greek Private Health Sector Over the Last Decade (2002-2012): The Case of Diagnostic & Therapeutic Centre of Athens Hygeia S.A.

20 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2014

Georgios Loukopoulos

University of Sussex Business School

Theodoros Roupas

University of Patras - Business Administration

Date Written: October 1, 2014

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to perform a comprehensive financial statement analysis for Hygeia, the largest Private Health Organization in Greece. In this regard, we employ a variety of theoretically advanced approaches. For instance, DuPont analysis based on the decomposition scheme of Nissim and Penman (2001), shows that the capital structure decisions eroded shareholder profits, and specifically their impact was pronounced after the outbreak of the global financial crisis. Considering the unique operating characteristics of the health sector and the hostile macroeconomic environment, working capital management performed generally well, but with a considerable margin for further improvements, if more responsible policies are followed. What is more, thorough analysis revealed that in the last years operating returns were consistently negative and operating cash return were unable to cover effective interest fixed costs. If the external environment does change favorably and if more importantly, the business model of Hygeia does not focus on significant operating improvements, the long term prospect of the organization may be questioned.

Keywords: financial analysis statement, Hygeia, ROE, ROA, asset turnover, profit margin Greece, private health sector, DuPont analysis, Nissim & Penman approach

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Loukopoulos, Georgios and Roupas, Theodoros, Financial Statement Analysis of the Greek Private Health Sector Over the Last Decade (2002-2012): The Case of Diagnostic & Therapeutic Centre of Athens Hygeia S.A. (October 1, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2503875
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
17 References
Z Boutsioli
Concentration in the Greek Private Hospital Sector: A Descriptive Analysis, Health Policy , volume 82 , p. 212 - 225 Posted: 2007
Crossref
J K Chang , C D Chichernea , R H Hassabelnaby
On the DuPont Analysis in the Health Care Industry
J. Account. Public Policy , volume 33 , p. 83 - 103 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P Curtis , A T Roupas
Health Care Finance, the Performance of Public Hospitals and Financial Statement Analysis
European Research Studies , volume 12 , issue 4 Posted: 2009
P M Fairfield , T L Yohn
Using Asset Turnover and Profit Margin to Forecast Changes in Profitability
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 6 , p. 371 - 385
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,569
RANK
266,613
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies