Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empowering Employees to Prevent Fraud in Nonprofit Organizations

Cardozo Public Law, Policy and Ethics Journal, Vol. 13, P. 711, 2015

U of Penn Law School, Public Law Research Paper No. 14-32

54 Pages Posted: 5 Oct 2014 Last revised: 10 Sep 2015

John Bradley

University of Pennsylvania Law School

Date Written: September 18, 2014

Abstract

This Article examines the significant problem of fraud within nonprofit organizations and demonstrates that current anti-fraud measures do not adequately reflect the important role employees play in perpetuating or stopping fraudulent activity. Psychological and organizational behavior studies have established the importance of (1) participation and (2) peers in shaping the behavior of individuals within the organizational context. This Article builds on that research and establishes that to successfully combat fraud, organizations must integrate employees into the design, implementation, and enforcement of anti-fraud strategy and procedures. Engaged, empowered employees will be less likely to commit fraud and more likely to dissuade their peers from fraudulent behavior. After examining the theory underlying the proposed approach, this Article sets forth directions and specific suggestions for designing an anti-fraud program that empowers employees.

Keywords: non-profit governance, charity, charitable, trust, fundraising, charities, not-for-profit organization, fraud prevention, cheating, employee empowerment, occupational fraud, misconduct, ethics, ethical decision making, employee monitoring methods, organizational values-first orientation

Suggested Citation:

Bradley, John, Empowering Employees to Prevent Fraud in Nonprofit Organizations (September 18, 2014). Cardozo Public Law, Policy and Ethics Journal, Vol. 13, P. 711, 2015, U of Penn Law School, Public Law Research Paper No. 14-32, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2505194
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
W Burton , Bruce J , Judging Winick &amp; David B. Wexler , In A Therapeutic , Key
In our discussion a legal dispute is the narrow framing of a broader conflict which is based on various interests and needs which are not fully reflected in the claims before the courts. Conflicts are many times polycentric. See Fuller, supra note 24, at 371-72. 26 See generally
Violence Explained: The sources of Conflict, Violence and Crime and Their Prevention Posted: 1997
J Bruce , Winick
Therapeutic Jurisprudence and Problem Solving Courts, 30 Fordham Urb
L.J Posted: 2002
Betsy Tsai
The Trend Toward Specialized Domestic Violence Courts: Improvements on an Effective Innovation, 68 Fordham L
Rev Posted: 2000
Michael King , Focused , Bench , Book
Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
418
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,102
RANK
160,317
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School, Public Law & Legal Theory Research Paper Series

Follow

Criminology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies