Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How to Face Financial Reality: An Interdisciplinary Network Model of Local Governance Actors

27 Pages Posted: 10 Oct 2014 Last revised: 24 May 2018

Ken Smith

School Accountability Group

John Kurpierz

York University - Schulich School of Business

Ottalee Schiffel

Valparaiso University

Date Written: October 8, 2014

Abstract

Managing financial resources and financial obligations are essential to the implementation of good governance. In particular, the constituents and leaders in smaller local governments and not-for profit entities confront a host of challenges in understanding and communicating about their financial situation. Using insights from five disciplines (Governmental Accounting, Political Science, Network Sociology, Cognitive Psychology and Data Visualization), this paper develops a systematic approach to categorizing the main and supporting actors and how they perceive and communicate financial reality among themselves. The main actors are the Leaders, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the Constituents; the supporting actors are the Media, the Auditors and Outside Experts/Powers (OEP). The model is beneficial for both researchers and practitioners: researchers can more efficiently and rigorously conduct case studies regardless of sample size while practitioners can quickly and exhaustively map and respond to gaps in their overall governance systems. The model can be expressed mathematically in a series of equations or visually using a “triforce” network map. The paper concludes with example cases across different jurisdictional scopes (e.g. school district, city, special district, nonprofit, etc).

Keywords: Financial Governance, Financial Reality, Government Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Smith, Kenneth A. and Kurpierz, John and Schiffel, Ottalee, How to Face Financial Reality: An Interdisciplinary Network Model of Local Governance Actors (October 8, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2507462 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2507462
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
AGA Posted: 2014-09-24
Crossref
Barbara J Berman , Cohn
Listening to the Public: Adding the Voices of the People to Government. Performance Measurement and Reporting Fund for the City of New York's Center on Municipal Government Performance Posted: 2005
Ronald S Burt
The Network Structure of Social Capital
Research in Organizational Behavior , volume 22 , p. 345 - 423 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Rita H Cheng
A Politico-Economic Model of Government Accounting Policy Choice
Research in Government and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 8 , p. 39 - 68 Posted: 1994
Load more
2 Citations
Kevin T. Rich , Brent Roberts , Joseph Wall , Jean X. Zhang
Toward an Understanding of Year-over-Year Changes in Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures
39 Pages · Posted: 27 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
John R. Kurpierz , Ken A. Smith
Forensic Acculturation for Accountability in Local Governments: A Design Science Approach for School Leaders and Citizens
Journal of Forensic Accounting Research , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 278 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
171
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,471
RANK
401,129
2 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Behavior: Cognition, Psychology, & Behavior eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies