Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Health Care Costs: Discussion of 'The Impact of Changes in Regulation on Cost Behavior'

Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Nov 2014

Eva Labro

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - Accounting Area

Date Written: August 21, 2014

Abstract

In this discussion, I use Holzhacker, Krishnan, and Mahlendorf (this issue), hereafter HKM, as a point of departure from which to discuss the current state of the two research areas to which they contribute. I will present some big-picture thoughts on research opportunities in their source literatures — the literature on financial management in health care and the literature on cost stickiness — and speculate as to where these literatures might go in the future.

Keywords: health care cost, cost elasticity, cost stickiness, financial management in health care

JEL Classification: M41, I1

Suggested Citation:

Labro, Eva, Health Care Costs: Discussion of 'The Impact of Changes in Regulation on Cost Behavior' (August 21, 2014). Contemporary Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2520088
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,731
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies