Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Harmonising European Public Sector Accounting Standards (EPSAS): Issues and Perspectives for Europe's Economy and Society

Accounting, Economics and Law: A Convivium. Volume 4, Issue 3, Pages 165-178. DOI: 10.1515/ael-2014-0015, October 2014

Posted: 10 Nov 2014

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Date Written: October 17, 2014

Abstract

Accounting systems play a hidden but fundamental role as mode and instrument of representation, coordination and organisation for the public sector and its specific public action. Therefore, financial and accounting reforms transform, implement and reshape public policies as well as the working and very existence of public administration. Last March 2013, the European Commission started a relevant project with the intention to create harmonised “European Public Sector Accounting Standards” (EPSAS) and implement them in the Member States. Between 1995 and 2002, a similar project was already achieved for private sector accounting standards-setting, leading to adoption and implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The EPSAS project should decide if public sector accounting standards-setting shall follow a similar pattern to converge towards the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) that transplant the IFRS in the public sector. This choice may have fundamental implications for the European (Monetary) Union, since public sector accounting and public finances are fundamental elements of its institutional framework. This thematic issue aims to provide analyses and perspectives on this ongoing public sector accounting harmonisation process in Europe, addressing its governance and contents, as well as its consequences and implications for Europe’s economy and society.

Keywords: public sector accounting, public finances, fiscal compact, IPSAS, European Union

JEL Classification: H11, H60, H61, H62, H63, H70, H71, H74, H77, H83, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri, Harmonising European Public Sector Accounting Standards (EPSAS): Issues and Perspectives for Europe's Economy and Society (October 17, 2014). Accounting, Economics and Law: A Convivium. Volume 4, Issue 3, Pages 165-178. DOI: 10.1515/ael-2014-0015, October 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2521107
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,760
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies