Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tracing the Future of Reporting in the Public Sector: Introducing Integrated Popular Reporting

International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 28, No. 6, pp. 449-460, 2015

Posted: 16 Nov 2014 Last revised: 12 Feb 2016

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Purpose: In this paper we debate the future form of reporting in the public sector by examining alternative forms of reporting, and more specifically the frameworks of integrated reporting and popular reporting. Moreover, we explore whether and how these reports could be related to each other in order for the needs of a pillar user group, that of the citizens, to be addressed.

Design/Methodology/Approach: We analyze the frameworks of integrated reporting and popular reporting, and by combining their characteristics we propose a creative synthesis suitable for the public sector.

Findings: The analysis leads to the conclusion that governmental entities need to take the next step on reporting in two parallel levels: the first would require the publication of information encountered in integrated reports containing various information elements that are not confronted to the traditional financial ones. The second would result in the provision of this information in a concise and easily comprehensive way. The merger of these two streams will give rise to the publication of “Integrated Popular Reports - IPR”.

Originality/Value: This move would result to useful and meaningful reporting with potential strategic advantages. The integrated reporting dimension of the reports combined to the popular reporting dimension would provide an adequate information matrix for citizens and other user groups (e.g. politicians, public executives), that are interested to understand the “whole picture” of public sector entities but at the same time they neither possess advanced accounting knowledge nor they are familiar with technical terminology.

Keywords: citizens, integrated reporting, popular reporting, public sector, user needs

JEL Classification: M40, H10

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Tracing the Future of Reporting in the Public Sector: Introducing Integrated Popular Reporting (2015). International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 28, No. 6, pp. 449-460, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2524807 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2524807
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,485
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies