Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Preparer Opposition and Strategic Implementation of Governmental Accounting Standards: Evidence from Public Pension Accounting Reform

Management Science, Forthcoming

47 Pages Posted: 4 Dec 2014 Last revised: 20 May 2022

Abigail M. Allen

Brigham Young University - Marriott School

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

Widely acknowledged as one of the most controversial standards in governmental accounting, GASB 67/68 radically altered both the recognition and measurement for defined benefit public pensions. The standards require the recognition of previously only disclosed unfunded pension liabilities and increase the magnitude of reported pension liabilities by requiring the partial incorporation of a market-based discount rate. While the recognition proposal was unaltered from its initial conception to the final standards, the discount rate proposal was significantly attenuated after the initial proposal met with unanimous preparer opposition.
Accordingly, we examine what incentives drive preparer lobbying positions, whether such lobbying is aligned with user interests, and how such lobbying affects ex post implementation of the final standard. Our results suggest a misalignment between preparer lobbying and a user interest perspective. In particular, while state opposition for liability-increasing proposals is positively associated with expected financial statement impact, economic constraints, and political ramifications, user lobbying exhibits the opposite relationship, suggesting that users demand greater transparency in the states most likely to eschew it. We further find that state governments consistently opposed to the market-based discount rate are more likely to maintain status quo higher discount rates which lower reported liabilities post the implementation of GASB 67/68. Examining the mechanism, we find that opposing states avoid the market-rate trigger by
increasing required contributions from employees rather than by increasing government funding or
implementing benefit cuts. The evidence taken together contributes to our understanding of the
development and implementation of the landmark GASB 67/68 standards.


Keywords: Public Pension, GASB, Standard Setting, Lobbying, Government

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H75

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Abigail M. and Petacchi, Reining, Preparer Opposition and Strategic Implementation of Governmental Accounting Standards: Evidence from Public Pension Accounting Reform (February 1, 2022). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2533492 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2533492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) (1987) Fiscal Discipline in the Federal System: National Reform and the Experience of the States (Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations
A M Allen , K Ramanna , S Roychowdhury
Auditor lobbying on accounting standards
Finance & Accounting , volume 3 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 331 Posted: 2018
J E Alt , D D Lassen , D Skilling
Fiscal transparency, gubernatorial approval, and the scale of government: Evidence from the states
State Politics and Policy Quarterly , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 230 - 250 Posted: 2002
J Altamuro , R Johnston , S Pandi , H Zhang
Operating leases and credit assessments
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 31 , issue 2 , p. 551 - 580 Posted: 2014
Load more
6 Citations
Nicholas Hallman , Inder K. Khurana
State Pension Liabilities and Credit Assessments
Accounting Horizons , volume 29 , issue 4 , p. 943 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Linda Kidwell , Suzanne Lowensohn
Stakeholder participation in the governmental accounting standard-setting process
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 30 , issue 2 , p. 252 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Natalia Aversano , Johan Christiaens , Paolo Tartaglia Polcini , Giuseppe Sannino
Accounting for heritage assets
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 33 , issue 2/3 , p. 307 Posted: 2019
Crossref
Eduardo Flores , Brian Monsen , Emily Shafron , Christopher Yust
'No Comment': Language Frictions and the IASB's Due Process
<i>Contemporary Accounting Research</i>, forthcoming · 51 Pages · Posted: 17 Apr 2023 · Last revised: 20 May 2025 · Downloads: 302
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
504
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,314
RANK
128,474
6 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies