Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decision Logics by Nurse Leaders: A Case Study of the Use of Accounting Information in a British Columbia Health Authority

2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

32 Pages Posted: 15 Dec 2014

Chris Duff

Royal Roads University

Kenneth Edgar D'Silva

London South Bank University - Centre for Research in Accounting

Date Written: December 14, 2014

Abstract

The role of surgical nurse leaders within the health system of British Columbia is relatively unique. For, in addition to important medical issues, they are also largely responsible for financial budgets, output targets and key performance Indicators. The research determines insights as to how management accounting and related information systems influence surgical nurse leaders’ decision logics and their interactions with surgeons and other surgical professionals.

The research employs a case-study using primarily semi-structured interviews and documentation review. Two theoretical frames are deployed for the research. The first is Institutional Theory as a possible trans-disciplinary explanation that challenges rational decision making. The second is Actor-Network Theory with the possibility that “networks” may supplement, sustain or collapse institutional forms.

Key findings point to the limited accountability of surgeons and the importance of a selective range of surgical output incentives including a “fee for service” regimen of remuneration. Where common interests are established, persuasive power, judiciously applied by nurse leaders was found to significantly influence the medical practices of surgeons.

The scope of the research was tempered by the relatively modest inputs from surgeons and surgical leaders. A more comprehensive study with greater input from surgeons would likely be more revealing and informative.

Resource pressures on B.C. Health Authorities are intense and increasing. The research informs policy makers responsible for the design of cost controls, output incentives and key performance Indicators.

Keywords: Actor Network Theory, Decision Making, Hospital Accounting, Institutional Theory, Nurse Leaders Actor Network Theory, Decision Making, Hospital Accounting, Institutional Theory, Nurse Leaders

Suggested Citation:

Duff, Christian Henry and D'Silva, Kenneth Edgar, Decision Logics by Nurse Leaders: A Case Study of the Use of Accounting Information in a British Columbia Health Authority (December 14, 2014). 2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538231 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538231
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Abbott
The system of professions: an essay on the division of expert labour Posted: 1988
M A Abernethy , J Stoelwinder
The Role of Professional Control in The Management of Complex Organizations. Accounting
Organizations And Society , volume 20 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 1995
Crossref
S Ackroyd
Organization Contra Organizations: Professional and Organizational Change in the UK. Organization Studies , volume 17 , p. 599 - 621 Posted: 1996
Crossref
D Allen
Re-conceptualising holism in the contemporary nursing mandate: From individual to organisational relationships
Social Science & Medicine , p. 131 - 138 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,709
RANK
677,757
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow

IO: Theory eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies