Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Lean Healthcare and Ontario Case Costing - An Examination of Strategic Change and Management Control Systems

2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference

24 Pages Posted: 17 Dec 2014

Jan Alpenberg

Linnaeus University - School of Business and Economics

D. Paul Scarbrough

Goodman School of Business - Accounting

Date Written: December 14, 2014

Abstract

In this paper we examine how two different strategic changes influence the Management Control Systems in six Ontario based hospitals. These changes are: 1. new funding regimes based on Ontario Case Costing and, 2. Lean Healthcare initiatives in Ontario Hospitals.

The Ontario Case Costing (OCC) approach is based on the traditional MAS assumption that more accurate costs will lead to lower costs through better management decisions of some sort. In contrast, Lean Healthcare is premised on the assumption that the primary path to better performance is realized by individual employees, who serve as the leading actors in a daily process of waste removal and efficiency improvement.

Based on the MA literature and on information about both the OCC and Lean Healthcare initiatives, we expect there to be significant frictions inside the financial management staff as well as between the Lean initiative and the financial management staff related to the OCC mandate. This study examines this set of interactions to learn how these issues impact the employees involved. In particular, the Ontario context allows us to examine the variety of responses to the interaction of Lean healthcare strategy and a traditional MAS such as OCC.

We find that the MASs of hospitals in our sample are too loosely coupled to develop the frictions indicated by traditional MAS theory and propose modifications in application of the theory to accommodate this observation.

Keywords: Lean Production, Health Care, Case Costing

Suggested Citation:

Alpenberg, Jan and Scarbrough, D. Paul, Lean Healthcare and Ontario Case Costing - An Examination of Strategic Change and Management Control Systems (December 14, 2014). 2015 Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA) Annual Conference, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2538288 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2538288
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
S Anderson
A framework for assessing cost management system changes: The case of activity based costing implementation at General Motors, 1986-1993
Journal of Management Accounting Research , issue 7 , p. 1 - 51 Posted: 1995
Ayca Bahadir
The Role of Management Accounting Systems in Implementing Lean Business Strategies Posted: 2011
A Baines , K Langfield-Smith
Antecedents to Management Accounting Change: a Structural Equation Approach. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 28 , p. 675 - 698 Posted: 2003
Crossref
R Banker , G Potter , R Schroeder
Manufacturing performance reporting for continuous quality improvement
Management International Review , volume 33 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 85 Posted: 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
237
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,039
RANK
294,906
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies