Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Adoption of the double-entry Accounting System in the Public Hospitals of Greece: The Investigation of the degree of assimilation by the executives and the Administration.

Posted: 19 Nov 2020 Last revised: 20 Nov 2020

Vassilis Smaraidos

TEI of Messolonghi; TEI of Western Greece - Department of Accounting and Finance; University of Patras - Department of Business Administration of Food and Agricultural Enterprises

Georgios L. Thanasas

Department of Management Science and Technology

Georgia Kontogeorga

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: December 13, 2014

Abstract

English Abstract: The health sector in Greece in recent years is undergoing various reforms. The financial crisis, which forced the reduction of the expenses of the Public Health Units, also contributes to this. Simultaneously with the introduction of Presidential Decree 146/2003, Accounting on an accrual basis is introduced in Public Hospitals. The aim of this study is to investigate the degree of assimilation of the double entry accounting system by the executives of the Public Hospitals. The research was carried out with the help of a questionnaire in 4 Health Regions of Greece and a total of 132 questionnaires were collected.



Note: Downloadable document is in Greek.

Keywords: Public Sector Accounting, Accrual Basis Accounting

JEL Classification: M49

Suggested Citation:

Smaraidos, Vassilis and Smaraidos, Vassilis and Thanasas, Georgios L. and Kontogeorga, Georgia, The Adoption of the double-entry Accounting System in the Public Hospitals of Greece: The Investigation of the degree of assimilation by the executives and the Administration. (December 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2539139
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
430
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies