Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Costs in Institutions of Higher Education in England

Studies in Higher Education, 33:5, 527-549

Posted: 10 Jan 2015

Geraint Johnes

Lancaster University - Lancaster University Management School; Lancaster University

Jill Johnes

University of Huddersfield

E. Thanassoulis

Aston University

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

Cost functions are estimated, using random effects and stochastic frontier methods, for English higher education institutions. The article advances on existing literature by employing finer disaggregation by subject, institution type and location, and by introducing consideration of quality effects. Estimates are provided of average incremental costs attached to each output type, and of returns to scale and scope. Implications for the policy of expansion of higher education are discussed.

Keywords: Higher education, Costs, Efficiency, Frontier estimation

Suggested Citation:

Johnes, Geraint and Johnes, Jill and Thanassoulis, E., An Analysis of Costs in Institutions of Higher Education in England (2008). Studies in Higher Education, 33:5, 527-549, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2546810
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Econometric Modeling: Microeconometric Studies of Health, Education, & Housing Markets eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies