Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors for a Successful Adoption of Budgetary Transparency Innovations: A Questionnaire Report of an Open Government Initiative in Mexico

Government Information Quarterly 31 (2014) S49–S62

14 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2015

Gabriel Puron-Cid

Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas, A.C. (CIDE)

Date Written: July 4, 2014

Abstract

The adoption of open government initiatives is not in vacuum. They are usually adopted in complex settings influenced by not only IT factors but also other factors from different structures, such as contextual, organizational, collaboration, knowledge, and trust. These structures come from the context in which the e-government project is embedded. The purpose of this article is to review the literature related to critical success and failure factors of ICT projects and previous findings in Puron-Cid, 2013 in order to extend them for the evaluation of open government initiatives using a case of budget transparency in Mexico. This study comprises a descriptive summary of answers from a questionnaire applied over federal and state government officials who participated in this initiative who adopted it into their practice. Due to the context of the initiative, questions about the factors from different structures including the budgeting structure were analyzed. General characteristics of the open government initiative were also examined. The main motivation of this study is to extend our understanding of possible enablers and inhibitors that public officials face during the adoption of this type of projects. Derived from the questionnaire results, a selection of practical recommendations were identified as useful for a successful adoption of open government projects.

Keywords: Open government, Factors of adoption, Questionnaire, Budgeting

Suggested Citation:

Puron-Cid, Gabriel, Factors for a Successful Adoption of Budgetary Transparency Innovations: A Questionnaire Report of an Open Government Initiative in Mexico (July 4, 2014). Government Information Quarterly 31 (2014) S49–S62, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2549908
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
92 References
Budgetary norms and regulations
Public investment norms and regulations
Civil service norms and regulations
Strategic planning in your organization [Organizational] 10. Standards for processes and tasks in your organization [Organizational] 11. Level of decentralization of decision making in your organization
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
165
ABSTRACT VIEWS
843
RANK
413,954
92 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies