Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Control and Nonprofit Organizations' Efficiency: Evidence from China

Posted: 5 Feb 2015

Wei Shu

Independent

Lin Bin

Independent

Dongjie Lin

Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) - School of Business

Ying Zheng

Sun Yat-sen University

Date Written: February 4, 2015

Abstract

Using a sample of 6,771 Chinese public charities from 2005 to 2012, we investigate the role of internal control quality on nonprofit organizations’ operating efficiency. We present evidence that internal control weakness and remediation of internal control deficiencies are positively related to operating efficiency measured as funds received from donors and fund usage efficiency by managers. Further analyses indicate that the role of internal control quality in efficiency is more significant for non-restricted donations, private fund-raising foundations, and local charities. Overall, our study extends the literature of internal control quality of nonprofit organizations by providing evidence of the effects of internal control on operational efficiency in a government-oriented environment.

Keywords: internal control deficiencies, internal control remediation, nonprofit organization, operational efficiency, emerging market

JEL Classification: M41, L31

Suggested Citation:

Shu, Wei and Bin, Lin and Lin, Dongjie and Zheng, Ying, Internal Control and Nonprofit Organizations' Efficiency: Evidence from China (February 4, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2560224
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,218
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies