Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Security Trust Fund Cash Flows and Reserves

Social Security Bulletin, 75(1): 1-34, 2015

34 Pages Posted: 15 Feb 2015

David Pattison

Government of the United States of America - Social Security Administration

Date Written: February 10, 2015

Abstract

This article examines the Social Security trust fund reserves and cash flows and their interrelationships with the Treasury's cash management operations and the budget of the rest of the federal government. The article considers the extent to which the trust fund reserves and interest income reflect cash transactions between the trust funds and the public and are not, as some commenters have asserted, just accounting fictions. It also considers whether, under the Social Security system's self-financing framework, an improvement in trust fund finances can help relieve the accumulated debt commitments of the rest of the federal government.

Keywords: Social Security, OASDI, Trust Fund, government budget

JEL Classification: H55, H610

Suggested Citation:

Pattison, David H., Social Security Trust Fund Cash Flows and Reserves (February 10, 2015). Social Security Bulletin, 75(1): 1-34, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2564658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Advisory Council on Social Security Financing
Misunderstandings of Social Security Financing Posted: 1958
Advisory Council on Social Security Posted: 1979
Interim Report on Social Security and the Federal Budget Posted: 1990
Crossref
Laurence Ball , N Gregory Mankiw
In Budget Deficits and Debt: Issues and Options; A Symposium Sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City , p. 95 - 119 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,045
RANK
499,164
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies