Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Governmental Accounting Measures Value Relevant to the Citizenry?

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Volume 26, Number 4, Winter 2014

29 Pages Posted: 4 Mar 2015

Paul A. Copley

James Madison University - School of Accounting

Edward B. Douthett

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University

Date Written: December 21, 2014

Abstract

We examine the relevance of governmental accounting information to the citizenry by analyzing the association between various financial and non-financial measures of local government performance and residential property values. The link between government performance measures and residential property values is based on a model of housing value capitalization developed by Yinger (1982). Using a model of first-differences, we find that changes in housing values are associated with government financial measures, including reported surplus and changes in outstanding debt. Further, we find that changes in housing values are also associated with non-financial measures of performance by county schools. Overall our results suggest that both financial and non-financial government performance measures are economically relevant to citizen property owners.

Suggested Citation:

Copley, Paul A. and Douthett, Edward B., Are Governmental Accounting Measures Value Relevant to the Citizenry? (December 21, 2014). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Volume 26, Number 4, Winter 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2571066
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
35 References
R Atamian , G Ganguli
The Recipients of Municipal Annual Financial Reports: A Nationwide Survey
The Government Accountants Journal , volume 40 , issue 3 , p. 3 - 21 Posted: 1991
M E Barth , W H Beaver , W R Landsman
The Relevance of the Value-relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View
Journal of Accounting & Economics , volume 31 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 77 - 104 Posted: 2001
Crossref
D A Belsley , E Kuh , R E Welsch
Regression Diagnostics Posted: 1980
Crossref
D W Collins , S P Kothari
An Analysis of Intertemporal and Cross-sectional Determinants of Earnings Response Coefficients
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 181 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,483
RANK
333,158
1 Citations
35 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Donald G. Costello College of Business at George Mason University Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies