Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Dilemma of the Supreme Audit Institutions: Autonomy or Relevance? A Case Study of the Government Accountability Office (GAO)

28 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2015

Asif Shahan

University of Dhaka - Department of Development Studies

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

The "Institutions of Accountability" (IOA) are considered as important instruments for ensuring horizontal accountability and of these, the role played by the Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) is particularly important. These SAIs are set up based on the constitutional and legal framework of countries and they help the legislatures to enforce accountability, reduce fiduciary risk and measure the outcome of different programs. Even though the SAIs are supposed to be "autonomous" and free from all types of political pressure, while performing their roles and responsibilities, these institutions have to interact with different political actors. As a result of this interaction, the SAIs, through concentrating on measuring the performance of different government programs/agencies, have started playing an important role in the political/policy arena and this has made the SAIs more relevant in the political realm. Consequently, the SAIs are now facing a unique dilemma - whereas autonomy requires that the SAIs be completely independent from the political actors while performing its duties, relevance requires keeping close connection with these actors so that their recommendations are being implemented. In other words, if the institution concentrates too much on protecting its autonomy by maintaining its distance from the other political actors, it may fail in affecting the policies/programs as per its recommendations. On the other hand, if the institution focuses on being relevant in the policy arena by interacting with the political actor, it may find itself vulnerable to political demand or pressure and thereby, may lose its autonomy. This paper has attempted to capture the dynamics of the autonomy-relevance dilemma faced by the SAIs and explore the strategies adopted by these institutions in dealing with this. While doing that, it has made an effort to develop a theoretical framework as a way to begin unpacking the political relationships and roles played by SAIs throughout the world

Suggested Citation:

Shahan, Asif, The Dilemma of the Supreme Audit Institutions: Autonomy or Relevance? A Case Study of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) (2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2573457 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2573457
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
W B Arthur
Increasing returns and path dependence in the economy Posted: 1994
Crossref
B Askling , M Bauer , &amp; S Marton
Swedish universities towards self-regulation: a new look at institutional autonomy
Tertiary Education and Management , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 175 - 195 Posted: 1999
Crossref
R Berdahl
Academic freedom, autonomy and accountability in British universities
Studies in Higher Education , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 169 - 180 Posted: 1990
Crossref
M E Bovens , L E Ferlie , &amp; C Lynn , Pollitt
Public Accountability
The Oxford Handbook of Public Management , p. 182 - 208 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
281
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,528
RANK
248,130
9 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies