Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fixing Public Sector Finances: The Accounting and Reporting Lever

UCLA Law Review, Vol. 62, No. 3, 2015

Harvard University John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business Discussion Paper No. 814

50 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2015

James P. Naughton

University of Virginia, Darden School of Business

Holger Spamann

Harvard Law School; ECGI

Date Written: March 1, 2015

Abstract

The finances of many states, cities, and other localities are in dire straits. In this Article, we argue that partial responsibility for this situation lies with the outdated and ineffective financial reporting regime for public entities. Ineffective reporting has obscured and continues to obscure the extent of municipal financial problems, thus delaying or even preventing corrective actions. Worse, ineffective reporting has created incentives for accounting gimmicks that have directly contributed to the dramatic decline of public sector finances. Fixing the reporting regime is thus a necessary first step toward fiscal recovery. We provide concrete examples of advisable changes in accounting rules and advocate for institutional changes, particularly Securities and Exchange Commission involvement, that we hope will lead to better public accounting rules generally.

Keywords: GASB, municipal finance, municipal accounting, municipal bond market, Tower amendment

JEL Classification: H83, K22

Suggested Citation:

Naughton, James P. and Spamann, Holger, Fixing Public Sector Finances: The Accounting and Reporting Lever (March 1, 2015). UCLA Law Review, Vol. 62, No. 3, 2015, Harvard University John M. Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business Discussion Paper No. 814, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2574308
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
E G See , Michael Corkery
Public Pensions Increase Private-Equity Investments
WALL ST. J Posted: 2012-01-26
Andonov
, p. 18 - 19
GASB, which stands for Governmental Accounting Standards Board, generates accounting standards solely for US state and local governments. GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BD Posted: 2014-11-21
Crossref
Generous pensions awkwardly propped up with ill-timed Pension Obligation Bonds (POBs) contributed to both debacles. See Mary Williams Walsh, How Plan to Help City Pay Pensions Backfired
The bonds took on some notoriety this past summer when two California cities Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,716
RANK
160,765
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Securities Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies