Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Governance Structure Influence Pension Fund Fees and Costs? An Examination of Australian Not-for-Profit Superannuation Funds

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2015

Posted: 11 Mar 2015

Monica Tan

Independent

Marie-Anne Cam

RMIT University; Financial Research Network (FIRN)

Date Written: February 1, 2015

Abstract

The importance of managed fund governance structures has become apparent in recent years. Looking at the Australian not-for-profit pension funds, we find correlations between funds’ internal governance structures and their level of costs. Larger boards are linked to higher investment management fees and expenses, operating expenses and trustee and audit fees. We also find a positive relation between the proportion of independent trustees and investment management fees and expenses and operating expenses. These fund costs increase as the number of board committees and fund size increase. Finally, we observe that the presence of board committees affects different types of fund costs. Overall, these findings suggest that the conventional good governance practices do not benefit superannuation fund members in terms of cost reduction. We find no evidence of economies of scale in cost minimisation, since the relation between fund size and costs is mixed across various governance variables.

Keywords: Fund costs, fund fees, fund governance, pension funds, superannuation funds, trustee

Suggested Citation:

Tan, Monica and Cam, Marie-Anne, Does Governance Structure Influence Pension Fund Fees and Costs? An Examination of Australian Not-for-Profit Superannuation Funds (February 1, 2015). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 40, No. 1, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2575719
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
976
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies