Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Property Tax Fairness in Multnomah County, Oregon

13 Pages Posted: 14 Apr 2015

Fred Thompson

Willamette University - Atkinson Graduate School of Management

Kawika Pierson

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - Sloan School of Management

Robert Walker

Willamette Center for Governance and Public Policy Research

Date Written: March 30, 2015

Abstract

This article evaluates two alternative standards for resetting property assessments on title transfer in property tax systems like Oregon’s and California’s, which are explicitly designed to protect property owners against rapid, unanticipated increases in their tax bills: California’s reset to market and one in which the property is given a new assessed value based on its market value and a ratio that is updated annually to reflect the average relationship between assessed value and market value within a jurisdiction. We find that the latter promotes assessment quality better than the former and also probably mitigates lock-in.

Keywords: property tax, fairness, assessment quality, stability

JEL Classification: H7, H71, H29, D63

Suggested Citation:

Thompson, Fred and Pierson, Kawika and Walker, Robert, Property Tax Fairness in Multnomah County, Oregon (March 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2593933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2593933
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
David G Blanchflower , Andrew J Oswald
Does High Home-­-Ownership Impair the Labor Market? NBER Working Paper No. 19079 Posted: 2013-05
Jack Citrin
Proposition 13 and the Transformation of California Government
The California Journal of Politics & Policy , volume 1 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Crossref
Ayse Imrohoroglu , Kyle Matoba , Selale Tuzel
Proposition 13: An Equilibrium Analysis
Marshall School of Business Working Paper No. 17-5 Pages: 50 Posted: 4 Aug 2015 Last revised: 21 Feb 2017
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
618,773
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Real Estate eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies