Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basing Budget Baselines

William & Mary Law Review, Forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 1 May 2015

David Kamin

New York University School of Law

Date Written: April 30, 2015

Abstract

Measuring the cost of legislation or even projecting the course of the federal budget requires defining a budget baseline — a starting point capturing the current state of the budget. Budget baselines underlie most measures employed in federal budget debates and enforcement rules. Yet, despite their widespread use, budget baselines engender considerable confusion and abuse.

For instance, when temporary tax breaks are enacted, they are officially estimated to cost far less than they likely will, because of a loophole in federal budget baseline rules. Then, later efforts to extend the tax cuts are counted as increasing deficits when, in fact, by more reasonable metrics, they do nothing of the sort and might even reduce deficits.

In response to such problems and the relative lack of scholarly attention, this article seeks to ground budget baselines in a theoretical framework and then apply this framework to some of the leading debates involving baselines. For example, after presenting this new framework for understanding budget baselines, the article proposes a way to fix the official baseline so that temporary tax cuts no longer appear less expensive than they really are and extensions no longer appear more expensive. This article also uses this framework to describe why the long-term fiscal shortfall is smaller than it is often depicted and why a long-term budget metric now under consideration should be rejected.

Thus, by arriving at a better understanding of budget baselines, this article helps to inform a number of key fiscal debates, as well as to make recommendations for how to improve budget measures going forward.

Keywords: baseline, budgeting, legal change, legislation

Suggested Citation:

Kamin, David, Basing Budget Baselines (April 30, 2015). William & Mary Law Review, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2594464
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
See supra notes 28-33 and accompanying text
See infra notes 28-29 and accompanying text
E G See , Cong , Budget , The Office , Budget , Economic , Outlook
Posted: 2011
For the assumptions underlying the baseline, see Budget Enforcement Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-58, § 257, 104 Stat. 1388 (establishing the baseline and setting out the assumptions to be used)
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,234
RANK
687,646
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies