Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Performance Measurement Foci: An Exploratory Study Based on Information from Danish Municipalities

Posted: 11 Jun 2015 Last revised: 8 Apr 2016

Christian Nielsen

University of Bologna

Steen Nielsen

Department of Economics and Business Economics

Date Written: June 9, 2015

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to explore how managers within the public sector can use different types of metrics for increasing performance. Data collected from a survey of 349 respondents, from local government organizations are tested in a structural equation modelling using partial least squares. The chosen associations in this setting show an adjusted R² of 64 percent of our empirical model specification. More importantly, these associations reveal important new insights about performance measures that public sector managers can apply. Specifically, the results indicate that metrics within benchmarking and strategy execution are the most important ones in relation to managerial performance through the intervening variables of innovation and learning and cost allocation techniques. In addition, we also find that the adoption of specific management accounting concepts to have a negative influence. These findings have important implications for policy-makers looking to improve public sector performance.

Keywords: Accounting measures, concepts, new public management, organizational performance, structural equation modelling, survey

Suggested Citation:

Nielsen, Christian and Nielsen, Steen, The Effects of Performance Measurement Foci: An Exploratory Study Based on Information from Danish Municipalities (June 9, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2616366
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
670
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Multiple Equation Models eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies