Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
State Pension Liabilities and Credit Assessments

Nicholas Hallman and Inder K. Khurana (2015) State Pension Liabilities and Credit Assessments. Accounting Horizons: December 2015, Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 943-967.

Posted: 10 Jul 2015 Last revised: 17 Mar 2017

Nicholas Hallman

University of Texas at Austin; The Salem Center for Policy

Inder K. Khurana

University of Missouri at Columbia - Robert J. Trulaske, Sr. College of Business

Date Written: July 9, 2015

Abstract

We examine the decision relevance of a commonly suggested adjustment to how state governments report governmental pension liabilities by recalculating such pension liabilities using the return on a portfolio of high quality municipal bonds as the discount rate. Calculated as the difference between the state's expected rate of return and the municipal bond return, we find that the discount rate adjustment associates with lower credit ratings and higher interest costs. We also find that credit rating agencies are more likely to issue conflicting ratings when the calculation of the discount rate adjustment involves greater uncertainty. Overall, while financial statement users agree about the need for and the direction of a pension liability rate adjustment, there is less consensus about the proper magnitude of this adjustment, suggesting that current accounting treatment of pensions in the public sector leads to costly uncertainty among financial statement users.

Keywords: State pensions, GASB 27, Governmental accounting

Suggested Citation:

Hallman, Nicholas and Khurana, Inder, State Pension Liabilities and Credit Assessments (July 9, 2015). Nicholas Hallman and Inder K. Khurana (2015) State Pension Liabilities and Credit Assessments. Accounting Horizons: December 2015, Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 943-967., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2628769
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,109
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies