Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management Information Systems for Non-Governmental Organisations. The Evidence from Poland

"Controlling and Knowledge. Shaping an Information Environment in Contemporary Business Organizations", eds. Joanna Dyczkowska, Paweł Kużdowicz, 2014, Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Universytetu Ekonomicznego, ISBN: 978-83-7695-414-1, (pp. 17-41)

25 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2015

Tomasz Dyczkowski

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

Developing MISs in NGOs is more challenging than in commercial companies. The author notes that many inputs and outputs related to non-governmental activities have qualitative character. Consequently, the contributions and effects related to non-governmental activities are less prone to valuation, which raises two questions. (1) “Which of the contributions and effects should be included in MISs and in periodical performance reports?”; (2) “How to measure these inputs and outputs and what methodology should be applied in order to guarantee credible information for social managers?”

In this context, the author analyzes whether NGOs are capable of pooling the data which is necessary to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of their operations and to enhance their potential. The author scrutinizes the information needs of NGOs and their reflection in the obligatory reporting systems in Poland. He designs a procedure of developing MIS and visualizes the integrated structure of the system. The stakeholders’ impact on the focus of MISs is also considered. Finally, the author investigates the attitudes of Polish NGOs towards performance management in accomplishing social objectives.

Keywords: management information systems, non-governmental organisations

JEL Classification: L31, M15, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowski, Tomasz, Management Information Systems for Non-Governmental Organisations. The Evidence from Poland (December 1, 2014). "Controlling and Knowledge. Shaping an Information Environment in Contemporary Business Organizations", eds. Joanna Dyczkowska, Paweł Kużdowicz, 2014, Wrocław: Wydawnictwo Universytetu Ekonomicznego, ISBN: 978-83-7695-414-1, (pp. 17-41), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2633043
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
K Brown , H Schmied
Controlling w podmiotach świadczących usługi społeczne [Controlling for organisations providing social services
Controlling i Rachunkowość Zarządcza , volume 205 Posted: 2007
T Dyczkowski
Effectiveness and efficiency of non-governmental organisation
Mittelstandscontrolling Posted: 2009
T Dyczkowski
Controlling w organizacjach pożytku publicznego. Perspektywa międzynarodowa [Controlling for public benefit organisations Posted: 2010
F Grippo , J Siegel
Practical guidance for accountants who audit nonprofit organizations Posted: 2003-02
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
472
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,811
RANK
139,038
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies