Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Founder and Other Family Participation on US Private Foundation Efficiency

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Aug 2015

Brian P. McAllister

University of Colorado, Colorado Springs

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

Date Written: December 4, 2014

Abstract

Founders make significant financial contributions in creating US private foundations. Therefore, we hypothesize that founders monitor foundation operations and predict a positive relation between founder participation and foundation efficiency. In contrast, we propose competing hypotheses in examining the relation between other family member participation and foundation efficiency. Other family member participation has the potential to enhance foundation efficiency if founders are able to transfer their philanthropic values to their progeny. However, other family participation also has the potential to diminish foundation efficiency if the founders’ withdrawal leaves their foundations without true principals to monitor managerial actions. We find that both founder and other family participation are positively associated with foundation efficiency. We also provide limited evidence that the positive association between founding family participation and foundation efficiency is transferred to second generation family members, but is not transferred to subsequent generations.

Keywords: private foundations, nonprofit, founder, efficiency

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

McAllister, Brian P. and Allen, Arthur C., The Role of Founder and Other Family Participation on US Private Foundation Efficiency (December 4, 2014). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2644678
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
990
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies