Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) as Intermediaries of the European Union Decision to Adopt International Accounting Standards: 1973-2002

Accounting Historians Journal, Forthcoming

79 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2015 Last revised: 24 Jan 2017

Devrimi Kaya

University of Erlangen-Nuremberg-Friedrich Alexander Universität Erlangen Nürnberg

Robert J. Kirsch

Southern Connecticut State University

Klaus Henselmann

University of Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU)

Date Written: September 3, 2015

Abstract

This paper analyzes the role of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as intermediaries in encouraging the European Union (EU) to adopt International Accounting Standards (IAS). Our analysis begins with the 1973 founding of the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC), and ends with 2002 when the binding EU regulation was approved. We document the many pathways of interaction between European supranational, governmental bodies and the IASC/IASB, as well as important regional NGOs, such as the Union Européenne des Experts Comptables, Économiques et Financiers (UEC), the Groupe d’Etudes des Experts Comptables de la Communauté Économique Européenne (Groupe d’Etudes), and their successor, the Fédération des Experts Comptables Européens (FEE). This study investigates, through personal interviews of key individuals involved in making the history of the organizations studied, and an extensive set of primary sources, how NGOs filled key roles in the process of harmonization of international accounting standards.

Keywords: Accounting History, International Accounting Standards (IAS), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Non-Governmental Organization (NGO), Fédération des Experts Comptables Européens (FEE), European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG)

Suggested Citation:

Kaya, Devrimi and Kirsch, Robert J. and Henselmann, Klaus, The Role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) as Intermediaries of the European Union Decision to Adopt International Accounting Standards: 1973-2002 (September 3, 2015). Accounting Historians Journal, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2655742 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2655742
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
IASC Insight headlined the Board's decision as , p. 1 - 2 Posted: 1999-12
Interview Enevoldsen
He would have preferred to have more part-timers on the Board, and more direct involvement of the Board in the appointment of Trustees. Also Posted: 2003-06-20
Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting of the Assembly of Member Bodies of the International Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 2000-05-24
Crossref
Those NGOs were
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,213
RANK
264,566
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies