Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Donor Reliance on Accounting and its Consequences for the Charitable Distribution Channel

32 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2015

Anil Arya

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: August 31, 2015

Abstract

The organization of charitable distribution channels to ensure donor contributions reach beneficiaries in an efficient manner and the use of accounting metrics of such efficiency (whether provided directly or by charity rating groups) are oft-discussed issues in the nonprofit sector. The two issues are inextricably linked since reported efficiency measures influence subsequent donor giving. This paper develops a parsimonious model of a charity that must decide how best to employ its resources, either by acting as a direct service provider or as a grant provider to organizations that provide services to beneficiaries. We show that the desire to boost perceptions of efficiency vis-a-vis accounting reports leads an organization to rely more on others to provide services rather than being a direct service provider. This temptation to expand either the scope or length of the charity supply line is muted by a desire to avoid redundant costs and improve service delivery. The model's results have implications both for the role of nonprofit accounting and observed distribution strategies of nonprofits.

Keywords: charities, donors, nonprofit accounting, supply chains

Suggested Citation:

Arya, Anil and Mittendorf, Brian, Donor Reliance on Accounting and its Consequences for the Charitable Distribution Channel (August 31, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2658299 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2658299
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Career concerns and accounting performance measures in nonprofit organizations. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 40 , p. 1 - 12 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W Baber , A Roberts , G Visvanathan
Charitable organizations' strategies and program-spending ratios
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , p. 329 - 343 Posted: 2001
Crossref
M Bagnoli , S Watts
Selling to socially responsible consumers: Competition and the private provision of public goods
Journal of Economics and Management Strategy , volume 12 , p. 419 - 445 Posted: 2003
Crossref
B Beamon
Supply chain design and analysis: models and methods
International Journal of Production Economics , volume 55 , p. 281 - 294 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,118
RANK
631,616
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies