Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pension Management between Financial Market Development and Intergenerational Solidarity: A Socio-Economic Analysis and a Comprehensive Model

Socio-Economic Review (2017). DOI: 10.1093/ser/mwx015

EGPA 2015 Annual Conference, Toulouse, 26-28 August 2015

26 Pages Posted: 18 Sep 2015 Last revised: 8 Apr 2017

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Marion Boisseau-Sierra

University of Cambridge - Cambridge Judge Business School

Date Written: September 16, 2015

Abstract

In recent decades, management modes for pension obligations has been coevolving with political and financial economic strategies aimed to prompt and promote active financial markets and institutional investors, as well as transnational harmonisation and convergence of accounting standards between private and public sectors. In this context, our article provides a theoretical analysis of these management modes for pension obligations, drawing upon a comprehensive review of existing practice and regulation. The latter are still inconsistent with the actuarial representation that has been fostered by international institutions, including the World Bank, the European Commission and the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) Board. According to our frame of analysis, a variety of viable modes of pension management exists and may be acknowledged. Our article elaborates a model of pension management in view to clarify and improve on pension protection, that is, the assurance of continued provision of pension payments at their agreed levels under viable alternative modes of pension management. Drawing upon this model, we further develop policy recommendations for accounting and prudential regulations concerned with pension obligations.

Keywords: Pension provision, pension benefit, pension liability, IPSAS, EPSAS, pension fund management, actuarial evaluation, public sector accounting regulation, public finances

JEL Classification: H55, G23, G28, M41, M48, K23

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Boisseau-Sierra, Marion, Pension Management between Financial Market Development and Intergenerational Solidarity: A Socio-Economic Analysis and a Comprehensive Model (September 16, 2015). Socio-Economic Review (2017). DOI: 10.1093/ser/mwx015, EGPA 2015 Annual Conference, Toulouse, 26-28 August 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2661718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2661718
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
Comments on IPSASB Exposure Draft 31 "Employee Benefits
American Academy of Acturaries Posted: 2007
Y Biondi , R J Bloomfield , J C Glover , K Jamal , J A Ohlson , S H Penman , . . Wilks , T J
A Perspective on the Joint IASB/FASB Exposure Draft on Accounting for Leases: American Accounting Association's Financial Accounting Standards Committee (AAA FASC). Accounting Horizons , volume 25 , p. 861 - 871 Posted: 2011
Crossref
The need for transparency in public sector pensions. A Comparative Study of Occupational Public Sector Pension Schemes in US
British North American Committee Posted: 2009
J Broadbent , M Palumbo , E Woodman
The shift from defined benefit to defined contribution pension plans--implications for asset allocation and risk management. Tech. rep., BIS Working papier series Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
181
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,093
RANK
381,120
2 Citations
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Regulation of Financial Institutions eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies