Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Medium Term Expenditure Framework: A Departure from Traditional Budgeting in Zambian Local Governments

12 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2015

Jimmy Chulu

Independent

Date Written: July 13, 2014

Abstract

From the historical perspective traditional local government budgeting was being prepared on incremental basis as a result the process could not achieve the objectives of local public expenditure management (LPEM) system. It is argued that the planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting of local governments from the incremental method could not enhance credibility due to the lack of comprehensiveness of the overall budget and financial data. In addition, over the years it became evident that the ability to collate and analyse financial performance of councils across the country of the revenues and expenditures could not be easily ascertained with accuracy and predictability.

Moreover, councils’ prepared shopping list type of traditional local government budget without considering the resource availability and their implementation capacity. However, there was also a serious concern of lack of a clear linkage between the planning and the budgeting system in councils and so often these budgets were not formulated on basis of detailed strategic plan. Probably, proponents of Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) process supported the introduction of performance-focused planning and budgeting because it would enhance local public accountability in the budget process.

On the other hand, opponents of the MTEF argued that before the MTEF reforms and procedures could be readily adopted by local governments, there was a need to address the financing mechanism of local governments. Perhaps, this can be said that it was a misguided assumption because the MTEF process was meant to achieve a key objective of enhancing local public expenditure management within available resource envelop. It can also be argued that the MTEF process was important in order for local governments to spread resources evenly within a rolling period of three years. Also the MTEF process was quite instrumental in the realisation of the fiscal decentralization reform agenda and to promote local public expenditure management system from the view point of vertical downwards accountability thus between the citizenry and the elected officials (Councillors).

Suggested Citation:

Chulu, Jimmy, Medium Term Expenditure Framework: A Departure from Traditional Budgeting in Zambian Local Governments (July 13, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2663160 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2663160
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
304
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
228,448
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Fiscal Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies