Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Double-Edged Relationship between Coercive Power and Compliance with Public Authority: Evidence from a Representative Sample of Austrian Self-Employed Taxpayers

33 Pages Posted: 2 Oct 2015

Katharina Gangl

University of Göttingen; Zeppelin University

Eva B. Hofmann

University of Vienna

Barbara Hartl

University of Vienna

Erich Kirchler

University of Vienna - Faculty of Psychology; Institute for Advanced Studies, Vienna

Date Written: July 30, 2015

Abstract

Empirical evidence on the impact of public authorities’ coercive power on compliance of citizens is inconsistent. In some studies, coercive power had a positive effect and in other studies it had a weak or negative effect on compliance. This inconsistency may be related to the double-edged nature of coercive power. Cluster analysis of data from a representative sample of self-employed taxpayers confirmed that some citizens perceive coercive power as illegitimate and do not trust public authority whereas others perceive coercive power as legitimate and do trust public authority. This perceptual difference may determine whether citizens’ interactions with public authority is characterized by antagonism and lack of compliance or synergism and compliance. Results also indicate that perceiving coercive power as a targeted way to safeguard citizens in contrast to as a random threat to citizens reinforces the double-edged perception of coercive power. Theoretical and practical conclusions as to how coercive power can enhance interaction climates and cooperation are drawn.

Keywords: control, law enforcement, legitimacy, tax compliance, trust

Suggested Citation:

Gangl, Katharina and Gangl, Katharina and Hofmann, Eva B. and Hartl, Barbara and Kirchler, Erich, The Double-Edged Relationship between Coercive Power and Compliance with Public Authority: Evidence from a Representative Sample of Austrian Self-Employed Taxpayers (July 30, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2667630 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2667630
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Abu Sharkh , M Gough , I
Global Welfare Regimes: A Cluster Analysis
Global Social Policy , volume 10 , p. 27 - 58 Posted: 2010
M G Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
J Alm , J Jackson , M Mckee
Estimating the Determinants of Taxpayer Compliance with Experimental Data
National Tax Journal , volume 45 , p. 107 - 114 Posted: 1992
J Alm , B Torgler
Culture Differences and Tax Morale in the United States and in Europe
Journal of Economic Psychology , volume 27 , p. 224 - 246 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
183
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,249
RANK
377,395
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies