Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Cost Structures and Organizational Characteristics on Nonprofit's Tax-Motivated Expense Reallocations

24 Pages Posted: 14 May 2001

Robert J. Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: April 20, 2001

Abstract

Nonprofit organizations are taxed on the portion of their income that is unrelated to their primary exempt mission. Prior research suggests that nonprofits reallocate expenses from their tax-exempt to their taxable activities in order to reduce their tax liabilities. This paper examines two issues related to these reallocations. First, what are the effects of cost structures and accounting allocation bases on nonprofits' ability to reallocate expenses? Second, can the tax reporting behavior models developed for fully taxable private firms predict nonprofit behavior? Results find that cost accounting methodologies play a particularly important role in determining the amount of income taxes nonprofits pay. Results also suggest that tax behavior models derived for the for-profit setting are partial predictors of nonprofit tax reporting behavior.

Keywords: Nonprofit organizations, Cost allocations, Tax behavior

JEL Classification: H20, H40, L30, M40, M41, M46

Suggested Citation:

Yetman, Robert, The Effects of Cost Structures and Organizational Characteristics on Nonprofit's Tax-Motivated Expense Reallocations (April 20, 2001). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=267625 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.267625
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income tax evasion: a theoretical analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
P Beck , W Jung
Taxpayer's reporting decisions and auditing under information asymmetry
The Accounting Review , volume 64 , p. 468 - 487 Posted: 1989-07
J J Cordes , B A Weisbrod
Differential taxation of nonprofits and the commercialization of nonprofit revenues
Journal of Policy Analysis and Management , volume 17 , p. 195 - 214 Posted: 1998
Crossref
L Eldenburg , N Soderstrom
Asymmetric information and incentives within a changing regulatory framework
The Accounting Review , volume 71 , p. 23 - 42 Posted: 1996-01
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
373
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,816
RANK
182,473
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Recommended Papers

The Effect of Nonprofits' Taxable Activities on the Supply of Private Donations

By Robert J. Yetman and Michelle Yetman

Nonprofit Business Activity and the Unrelated Business Income Tax

By James R. Hines Jr.

Determinants of Nonprofits' Taxable Activities

By Robert J. Yetman and Michelle Yetman

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies