Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Quality of Financial Reporting of Washington State School Districts: Results from a Population-Wide Analysis of Audited Financial Reports

15 Pages Posted: 30 Oct 2015

John Kurpierz

York University - Schulich School of Business

Elijah Panci

University of Washington

Date Written: March 25, 2015

Abstract

We examined the population of audited financial reports from all of Washington State’s 292 School Districts via the State Auditor’s Office. We found that 19 percent of school districts do not produce audited financial statements, and an additional 34 percent have problems ranging from relatively minor to severe. Of the remainder, 46 percent are generally compliant, yet only one percent of school districts produce disclosures that fully comply with generally accepted accounting standards (GAAP). This rate and quality of disclosures is significantly less and of lower quality than many other systems of financial reporting. The current reporting system appears to have significant flaws.

Keywords: School Districts, Auditing, Public Finance, Accounting History, Transparency

JEL Classification: H89, I22, I28

Suggested Citation:

Kurpierz, John and Panci, Elijah, Quality of Financial Reporting of Washington State School Districts: Results from a Population-Wide Analysis of Audited Financial Reports (March 25, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2679632 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2679632
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
William R Baber , Angela K Gore
Consequences of GAAP Disclosure Regulation: Evidence from Municipal Debt Issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Rajiv D Banker , Beverly S Bunch , Robert P Strauss
Factors Influencing School District Financial Reporting Practices
Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 5 , p. 27 - 56 Posted: 1989
Ralph Blumethal
Recalling New York at the Brink of Bankruptcy
New York Times Posted: 2002-12-05
Charles ; Carslaw , Richard ; Mason , John R Mills
Audit Timeliness of School District Audits
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 19 , issue 3 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,119
RANK
493,078
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies