Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial and Non-Financial Information in Performance Assessment of Public Benefit Organizations

Research Papers of Wroclaw University of Economics, Vol. 398, pp. 134-145, 2015

12 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2015

Tomasz Dyczkowski

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: October 12, 2015

Abstract

Non-governmental organisations are aware that their successes in fulfilling social missions depend on support received from individual and institutional donors. In order to obtain external funding it is necessary to inform potential supporters about the performance of an organisation and efficiency in using its resources. The paper aims at diagnosing whether obligatory annual statements, and in particular financial and non-financial information they carry as well as the interplay between those two, may facilitate communication between organisations and their donors. An analysis of 177 annual reports of public benefit organisations (PBOs) and the results of an experiment supported by 59 participants proved relevance of information characterising social and economic effects of PBOs. It should be pointed out that the decisions of potential donors appeared to be conditioned by the perception of resources matching social goals along with effects adequate to resources and cost incurred. Finally, the relevance of information carried by the sets of specialised ratios was confirmed.

Keywords: donors, financial information, nonfinancial information, public benefit organisations

JEL Classification: L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowski, Tomasz, Financial and Non-Financial Information in Performance Assessment of Public Benefit Organizations (October 12, 2015). Research Papers of Wroclaw University of Economics, Vol. 398, pp. 134-145, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2681273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
M Arvidson , F Lyon
Social impact measurement and non-profit organisations: compliance, resistance, and promotion, Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 25 , p. 869 - 886 Posted: 2014
Financial and non-financial information in performance assessment…
B K Behn , D D Devries , J Lin
The determinants of transparency in nonprofit organizations: an exploratory study
Advances in Accounting, incorporating Advances in International Accounting , volume 26 , p. 6 - 12 Posted: 2010
Crossref
S Boenigk , Ch Scherhag
Effects of donor priority strategy on relationship fundraising outcomes
Nonprofit Management & Leadership , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 307 - 336 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
936
RANK
454,090
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies