Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Auditee Adoption of Audit Recommendation: Local Government Auditors' Perspectives

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting and Financial Management, 24(2): 195-220, 2012

26 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2015

Stephen Aikins

University of South Florida

Date Written: June 16, 2012

Abstract

This research determines the impact of local government’s internal audit process on the audit client management’s adoption of audit recommendations. Publicity of financial and operational problems in government in recent years has led to concerns about the quality of government audits, the extent of public managers’ adoption of audit recommendations, as well as citizen demand for accountability in government. In spite of this, the importance of the government audit process in ensuring accountability has gained little attention in public management research. A survey of local government audit executives was conducted to determine various aspects of the local government internal audit process and their relationships with audit client management’s adoption of audit recommendations. Results show that client management’s adoption of audit recommendation is a function of auditor professional designation, due diligence, client relations, documentation and tracking of audit recommendations, as well as of follow-up audits to verify implementation of agreed-upon action plans.

Keywords: Auditor, Audit Client, Recommendation, Local Government

Suggested Citation:

Aikins, Stephen, Determinants of Auditee Adoption of Audit Recommendation: Local Government Auditors' Perspectives (June 16, 2012). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting and Financial Management, 24(2): 195-220, 2012, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689393
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M B Adams
Agency Theory and the Internal Audit
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 9 , issue 8 , p. 8 - 12 Posted: 1994
Crossref
G R Aldhizer , J R Miller , J F Moraglio
Common Attributes of Quality Audits
Journal of Accountancy , volume 17 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 68 Posted: 1995
A H Ashton
Experience and Error Frequency Knowledge as Potential Determinants of Audit Expertise
The Accounting Review , volume 66 , p. 218 - 239 Posted: 1991
B K Behn , J V Carcello , D R Hermanson , R H Hermanson
The Determinants of Audit Client Satisfaction among Clients of Big 6 Firms
Accounting Horizons , volume 11 , issue 1 , p. 7 - 24 Posted: 1997
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
297
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,975
RANK
234,221
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies