Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Management in Government Internal Audits: Critical Success Factors

Journal of Public Administration and Governance, 5(3): 46-79, 2015

25 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2015

Stephen Aikins

University of South Florida

Date Written: August 15, 2015

Abstract

This study investigates the factors that impact successful performance management in government internal audit units. Studies show that besides formal compliance with statutory and administrative mandates such as compilation and reporting, public sector performance measures are not utilized for managerial decision making, budgetary allocation and accountability. The National Performance Management Advisory Commission has identified in the Performance Management Framework for State and Local Government, activities that constitute key factors for sustaining performance management. Using 2012 benchmarking data from the Association of Local Government Auditors, this study analyzed the extent to which the uses of government internal audit performance reports, as well as audit performance of the activities identified as key factors in the above-mentioned framework, impact successful audit performance management. Results show that successful performance management is a function of audit oversight body's commitment, audit staff accountability, availability of adequate resources, as well as the use of audit performance report to monitor achievement against performance objectives, and to coordinate efforts within government. The results also generally confirm both the literature on the low utilization of performance measures and many key factors outlined in the performance management framework.

Keywords: government, internal audit, performance measurement, performance management

Suggested Citation:

Aikins, Stephen, Performance Management in Government Internal Audits: Critical Success Factors (August 15, 2015). Journal of Public Administration and Governance, 5(3): 46-79, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
D Ammons
Leading performance management in local government Posted: 2008
M P Aristigueta
Managing for results in state government Posted: 1999
A A Atkinson , J H Waterhouse , R B Wells
A stakeholder approach to strategic performance measurement
Journal of Public Administration and Governance , volume 38 , issue 3 , p. 25 - 37 Posted: 1997
K Barrett , R Green
Goodbye to good research. Governing Magazine , p. 48 - 49 Posted: 2010-01-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
246
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,565
RANK
284,192
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies