Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of Government Internal Audits' Role in Improving Financial Performance

Public Finance and Management, 11(4): 306-337, 2011

32 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2015

Stephen Aikins

University of South Florida

Date Written: November 30, 2011

Abstract

This research empirically examines how the work of government internal audits lead to improvements in government financial performance. Periodic economic downturn and dwindling state aid to local governments have left many public managers looking for ways to improve financial oversight and operational efficiency. Although internal audit is one area with the expertise to assess efficient utilization of financial resources and help improve oversight and financial performance, public administration research has paid little attention to the role of internal audit in the financial management process. A survey was sent to local government Chief Auditors to learn of audit’s examination of government operations and financial management. Financial performance data were obtained from the Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports (CAFRs) of survey respondents’ local governments and analyzed with the survey responses. Results show that in general, local government auditors perform more audits in operational areas that deal with fiscal receipts and outlays. Additionally, auditors’ work significantly influences local government financial performance both directly and indirectly through improvements in internal controls and efficiency of operations.

Keywords: internal audit, financial management, financial performance, control adequacy, control effectiveness, documented policies, procedural guidelines, government

Suggested Citation:

Aikins, Stephen, An Examination of Government Internal Audits' Role in Improving Financial Performance (November 30, 2011). Public Finance and Management, 11(4): 306-337, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2689405
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
56 References
A Agbejule , A Jokipii
Strategy, control activities, monitoring and effectiveness
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 24 , issue 6 , p. 500 - 522 Posted: 2009
Crossref
A Arens , R Elder , M Beasley
Auditing and assurance services: An integrated approach Posted: 2006
T Asare
Internal auditing in the public sector: Promoting good governance and performance Improvement
International Journal of Government Financial Management , p. 12 - 27 Posted: 2008
M Baltaci , S Yilmaz
Keeping an eye on sub national governments: Internal control and audit at local levels , p. 7 - 15 Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,959
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,422
RANK
19,247
56 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies