Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Explaining Municipal Audit Costs in Sweden: Reconsidering the Political Environment, the Municipal Organization and the Audit Market

Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 20 Nov 2015

Sven-Olof Collin

Free University of Scania; Kharkiv University of Humanities "People's Ukrainian Academy"

Mattias Haraldsson

Lund University

Torbjörn Tagesson

Lund University

Veronica Blank

Kristianstad University College

Date Written: November 18, 2015

Abstract

With the purpose of explaining professional audit costs in Swedish municipalities, we hypothesised that audit costs are partly driven by various signalling and monitoring incentives in order to manage stakeholder relationships. Our model of the determinants of audit costs was tested on data from Swedish municipalities, thus extending the study of audit costs to political organizations in a Scandinavian institutional context. The test supported to some extent the traditional propositions of organizational complexity, risk and market determinants, as well as the proposition of the political environment. Our results indicate that audit costs are used to signal accountability, thereby suggesting that audit as a signal could be managed without managing professional auditors.

Keywords: audit costs, municipality, governance, Sweden

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Collin, Sven-Olof and Haraldsson, Mattias and Tagesson, Torbjörn and Blank, Veronica, Explaining Municipal Audit Costs in Sweden: Reconsidering the Political Environment, the Municipal Organization and the Audit Market (November 18, 2015). Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2692742
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,028
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies