Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building Better Budgets: Canada's Cities Should Clean Up Their Financial Reporting

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 439

24 Pages Posted: 24 Nov 2015

Benjamin Dachis

C.D. Howe Institute

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: November 18, 2015

Abstract

In nearly all Canada’s major cities, what should be a simple exercise – comparing the spending voted by city council in its annual budget with the actual spending reported at year-end – will baffle any but the most expert reader. While most of Canada’s federal and provincial governments now present their budgets on the same basis as their financial reports, municipal governments typically do not. As a result, judging whether a city over- or under-shot its budget targets, and by how much – which should be a simple matter of comparing headline numbers – is not possible for a typical councillor, taxpayer or citizen. The critical common element is that most cities use an antiquated form of budgeting. Most of Canada’s senior governments, when preparing budgets and end-of-year reports, use modern accounting methods that record the cost of long-lived assets such as buildings and infrastructure as those assets deliver their services. Municipal budgets, by contrast, budget capital on a cash basis, exaggerating projects’ up-front costs and understating them later on expenses. Largely for this reason, no major city in Canada offers a clear budget presentation, and none earns an “A” in our report card on budgeting practices. Among the cities that earn the worst grades for baffling budget presentations are Edmonton, Winnipeg, Windsor, Toronto, Vaughan and Ontario’s Durham Region. This study also shows how a reasonably intelligent but time-constrained non-expert user – a councillor or taxpayer – might understand the differences between budgeted and actual spending in Canada’s major cities. The gaps are enormous – and indicate that opaque budgeting is a major obstacle to fiscal accountability at the municipal level. Importantly, these cities’ end-of-year financial reports, which use accounting similar to that used by senior governments, show a cumulative surplus of $41 billion since 2008. Their total surplus was $6 billion in 2014 alone. This record suggests that cash budgeting has led cities to over-charge today’s taxpayers for long-lived capital projects. In Ontario, Vaughan, Halton Region, and Markham stand out in this respect; among major Western Canadian cities, Calgary, Saskatoon and Surrey, B.C. also appear not to be spreading the costs of capital over time as fairly as they could. Changes in provincial legislation could foster better municipal budgeting, but cities also have the capacity to present more meaningful numbers on their own. Having comparable accounting standards among all levels of government is critical to understanding the relative fiscal health of each level – especially important if provinces look to give cities new tax powers or direct financial supports. Both provinces and municipalities should take steps to improve the fiscal accountability of municipalities and the stewardship of municipal funds.

Keywords: Public Governance and Accountability

JEL Classification: H72, R50, R51

Suggested Citation:

Dachis, Benjamin and Robson, William B. P., Building Better Budgets: Canada's Cities Should Clean Up Their Financial Reporting (November 18, 2015). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 439, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2695186 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2695186
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Richard Bird , Enid Slack , Almos Tassonyi
A Tale of Two Taxes: Property Tax Reform in Ontario Posted: 2012
Colin Busby , William B. P. Robson
Canada's 2012 Fiscal Accountability Rankings
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 373 Pages: 24 Posted: 29 Jun 2013
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Credibility on the (Bottom) line: The Fiscal Accountability of Canada's Senior Governments
Near Hits and Big Misses: Canada's 2009 Fiscal Accountability Rankings , volume 117 Posted: 2009
Benjamin Dachis , William B P Robson
Baffling Budgets: The Need for Clearer and More Comprehensive Financial Reporting by Canada's Municipalities
Backgrounder , volume 145 Posted: 2011-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
627,303
7 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Canadian Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies