Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Cultural Ewuh Pakewuh Bureaucracy Toward Significance Accounting Fraudulency in the Government: The Perception of Government Internal Control Apparatus Sragen Area Inspectorate

16 Pages Posted: 3 Dec 2015

Ratna Wati

Sebelas Maret University

Date Written: December 30, 2014

Abstract

Based on our understanding, an organization includes culture and structure. Nowadays, this improvement is merely focused on the organizational structure rather than culture in which embedded in the organization. In fact, culture can affect the structure of the organization. Culture which is examined in this study is ewuh-pakewuh bureaucratic culture and its effect toward accounting fraudulency. This research is focused on to see the possibility of a correlation between the effects of ewuh pekewuh bureaucratic culture toward the tendency of accounting fraudulency. "Ewuh-pakewuh" is one of inherent culture of Java community, where the culture is instilled as a sense of shy, awkwardness, and respectful toward others. Ewuh-pakewuh can occur because of the position, seniority, charisma, as well as good relationships that create shyness feeling and reticent attitude towards someone else.

This study was aimed to determine the effect of "ewuh pekewuh" bureaucratic culture toward the existing of accounting fraudulency in the government agencies, particularly at the Internal Control Apparatus of Government Inspectorate. APIP is one of the civil servant departments which carry out duty to supervise all of the government implementers located at APIP structurally and systematically. The position of APIP Inspectorate in preventing and finding accounting fraudulency is strategic, otherwise in the mean time of execution, appears the sense of hesitate to reveal or discover the accounting fraudulency that occurs if the personal audit has a higher position than them.

This research methodology was done by doing a direct observation at Sragen Inspectorate area which was conducted during 7 (seven) years start from 2007 until 2014, and supported by interviews with The Government Internal Control Apparatus auditors (APIP) in the Inspectorate. And the results showed that "ewuh pekewuh" bureaucratic culture has a significant effect toward the tendency of accounting fraudulency in the government.

Keywords: The Culture of ewuh pakewuh, accounting fraudulency, APIP Inspectorate

Suggested Citation:

Wati, Ratna, The Effect of Cultural Ewuh Pakewuh Bureaucracy Toward Significance Accounting Fraudulency in the Government: The Perception of Government Internal Control Apparatus Sragen Area Inspectorate (December 30, 2014). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2698509 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2698509
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
( Sas) , S O A S
Consideration of Fraud in A Financial Statement Audit Posted: 2002
S O Ansah
An empirical analysis of the likelihood of detecting fraud in New Zealand
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 17 , issue 4 , p. 192 - 204 Posted: 2002
Arens
Auditing dan Jasa Assurance , Pendekatan terintegrasi, Jilid I, Edisi Ke12 Penerbit Erlangga Posted: 2008
Standar Pemeriksaan Keuangan B. RI , volume 1 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,508
RANK
342,603
2 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies