Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Usefulness of Financial Information from Annual Statements of Public Benefit Organisations in Evaluation of Their Performance

Finansowe uwarunkowania rozwoju organizacji gospodarczych. Zarządzanie finansami a efektywność ekonomiczna, eds. Postuła M., Turyna J., 2015, Warszawa: Wydawnictwo Naukowe Wydziału Zarządzania Uniwersytetu Warszawskiego, pp. 178-193, ISBN 978-83-65402-00-4

16 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2015

Tomasz Dyczkowski

Wroclaw University of Economics

Date Written: November 17, 2015

Abstract

Public benefit organisations (PBOs) face a challenge of generating considerable social effects with limited resources. In order to secure external funds they need to provide their donors with performance-related information. The following paper aims at diagnosing whether annual statements of PBOs, and in particular financial information they carry, as well as specialised ratios may facilitate the said communication between organisations and their donors. With a reference to 177 randomly selected statements of PBOs and regarding results of a laboratory experiment it was proved that, despite inconsistencies and mistakes, annual statements influence donors’ decisions which organisation they want to support. On the other hand, finding appropriate performance ratios, considering a restricted use of profitability, liquidity or financial structure analyses, turned out to be a challenge. Nonetheless, measures assessing remuneration levels and valuating voluntary involvement were found useful to diagnose donors’ priorities.

Keywords: donors, financial information, performance ratios, public benefit organisations

JEL Classification: L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dyczkowski, Tomasz, Usefulness of Financial Information from Annual Statements of Public Benefit Organisations in Evaluation of Their Performance (November 17, 2015). Finansowe uwarunkowania rozwoju organizacji gospodarczych. Zarządzanie finansami a efektywność ekonomiczna, eds. Postuła M., Turyna J., 2015, Warszawa: Wydawnictwo Naukowe Wydziału Zarządzania Uniwersytetu Warszawskiego, pp. 178-193, ISBN 978-83-65402-00-4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2699207
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
E Barman
What is the Bottom Line for Nonprofit Organizations? A History of Measurement in the British Voluntary Sector. Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations , volume 18 , p. 101 - 115 Posted: 2007
Crossref
S Boenigk , Ch Scherhag
Effects of Donor Priority Strategy on Relationship Fundraising Outcomes
Nonprofit Management & Leadership , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 307 - 336 Posted: 2014
Crossref
E Buteau , M Chaffin , R Gopal
Transparency, Performance Assessment, and Awareness of Nonprofits' Challenges: Are Foundations and Nonprofits Seeing Eye to Eye? Foundation Review , volume 6 , p. 66 - 80 Posted: 2014
Crossref
C Connolly , A Dhanani , N Hyndman
The Accountability Mechanisms and Needs of External Charity Stakeholders. Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
983
RANK
719,188
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies