Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Perspectives on Treasury Single Account (TSA) Policy in Nigeria

Posted: 23 Dec 2015

Salawu Adeku Zubairu, mni

Office of the Accountant General of the Federation

Date Written: December 21, 2015

Abstract

This paper studies the Perspectives on the Treasury Single Account (TSA) Policy in Nigeria meant to enhance transparency and accountability in cash resources management. Effective cash management is critical in the discharge of government responsibilities of providing security, welfare, infrastructure, goods and services to the populace. The main sources of financing Government activities are from oil revenues, taxes and independent revenues. The TSA policy was necessitated amongst others by lack of transparency and accountability of the cash resources available to government, endemic corruption, unmanageable number of accounts maintained by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), growing domestic debt and associated costs, poor budgetary planning and execution, huge shortfall in revenues accruing from oil, etc. There were, however, expression of fears especially from the money deposit banks of loosing huge public sector deposits, which would affect their operations, and lead to eventual job loses. The policy should be seen by many as a political commitment to prudent cash management in order to address the challenges and put government in a better control to deliver goods and services to the citizenry. In spite of the concerns about the negative impacts of TSA policy, the author opines that the benefits are huge and therefore should be pursued vigorously in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive and change agenda.

Keywords: Perspectives, Treasury, transparency, accountability, infrastructure, endemic, corruption, prudent, commitment, challenges, vigorously, change, agenda

JEL Classification: P35

Suggested Citation:

Zubairu, Salawu Adeku, Perspectives on Treasury Single Account (TSA) Policy in Nigeria (December 21, 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2706668
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,100
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies