Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting: A Tool for Financial Management and Control: The Case of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon

35 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016

Anita Chombeng Rene

Canadian Academic Accounting Association (CAAA); CCU; CPA British Columbia ; ACCA UK; CPA CANADA

Date Written: January 12, 2016

Abstract

The question as to whether budgeting is a relevant tool in the financial management and control of organisations has gone on for long. While proponents of Beyond Budgeting have stood for the eradication of budgeting in the running of organisations, others have stood for a maintenance because it plays more than just the role of regulating finances of an organisation. This study aims to look at budgeting as a tool for financial management and control with focus on the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon with the intention of demonstrating that it is a cumbersome budgeting procedure that makes some people feel that budgeting is worthless.

The deductive research approach has been adopted for the study with pragmatist research philosophy used since it allows both the quantitative and qualitative research methods, to be used in one research. A combination of the positivist and interpretivist philosophies used for practical data collection, interpretation, and analysis. Various methods of data collection were used to come out, after analyzing findings proves that the use of budgeting has enhanced the management of finances and personnel within the PCC, and so by extension can work same for other organisations; thus showing the relevance of budgeting as an effective control tool. The study argues that in order for budgeting to fit well as a control tool in organisations, the positive elements of the various budgeting schools should be merged to make the budgeting process simpler and less time consuming, so as to encourage stakeholders to see its usefulness.

Keywords: Budgeting, Financial Management, Control, Beyond Budgeting

Suggested Citation:

Chombeng Rene, Anita and Chombeng Rene, Anita, Budgeting: A Tool for Financial Management and Control: The Case of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon (January 12, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2714588 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2714588
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
How often do you review your budgets? Once ( ) Twice ( ) Thrice (
It is better to propose or implement corrective measures within ( ), after ( ) the budget periods?
Is it good to allow them to be responsible for their budget segments? Yes (
An organization without budgets is better than one with budgets? Yes (
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
986
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,599
RANK
53,427
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies