Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Procurement Practices and the Municipality Auditing Market

44 Pages Posted: 14 Jan 2016 Last revised: 6 Apr 2017

Ana Cristina Marques

Norwich Business School - University of East Anglia

Ana Calado Pinto

University Institute of Lisbon (IUL) - CIES-IUL, ISCTE (Centre for Research and Studies in Sociology)

Date Written: January 13, 2017

Abstract

In this article we study the determinants of (i) audit services’ public procurement criteria, and (ii) the audit fees of Portuguese municipalities. Our dataset is unique, resulting from merging new survey data with data that is not usually publicly available. We find that the majority of municipalities acquire auditing services based upon the lowest price selection criterion. However, this practice is less frequent in municipalities with higher public procurement sophistication and with higher political competition. Our analysis of the audit fees charged indicate these are higher in municipalities with more sophisticated procurement processes, higher political competition, and more citizens’ interest. Audit fess are also lower in municipalities with an internal auditing office.

Keywords: local government, political competition, lowest price selection criterion, audit fees

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Ana Cristina and Pinto, Ana Calado, Procurement Practices and the Municipality Auditing Market (January 13, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2715556 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2715556
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
L Abbott , S Parker , G Peters
Audit Fee Reductions from Internal AuditProvided Assistance: The Incremental Impact of Internal Audit Characteristics
Contemporary Accounting Research , volume 29 , issue 1 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2012
Crossref
AICPA -The American Institute of CPAs Posted: 2014
W Baber , E Brooks , W Ricks
An Empirical Investigation of the Market for Audit Services in the Public Sector
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 293 - 305 Posted: 1987
Crossref
V Beattie , S Fearnley
Audit market competition: auditor changes and the impact of tendering
The British Accounting Review , volume 30 , issue 3 , p. 261 - 289 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,075
RANK
730,413
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies