Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Vulnerability: An Exploratory Study

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Feb 2016 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

John Watson

The University of Western Australia

Linda Zhai

Curtin University

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Rick Newby

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: January 8, 2015

Abstract

This mixed method study explores the symptoms and potential causes of nonprofit vulnerability within the Australian context. Following two focus groups with CEOs and Chairs of nonprofit organizations, an online survey was developed, pilot tested and distributed to nonprofit CEOs. Our findings suggest three symptoms that might be particularly useful in identifying nonprofit vulnerability: a substantial increase in unit costs/delivery hours; a substantial increase in the proportion of administration to program expenses; and a reduced ability to pursue the organization’s mission. The results also suggest various potential causes of nonprofit vulnerability, in particular: Board inadequacies; External environmental threats; Project management issues; and Funding constraints.

Keywords: nonprofit vulnerability, symptoms, causes

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Watson, John and Zhai, Linda and Gilchrist, David and Newby, Rick, Nonprofit Vulnerability: An Exploratory Study (January 8, 2015). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2729576
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,133
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies