Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charity Accountability in the UK: Through the Eyes of the Donor

Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 10 No. 3/4, 2013

20 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Ciaran Connolly

Queen's University Belfast

Noel Hyndman

Queen's University Belfast; Queen's University Belfast - Queen's Management School

Date Written: October 5, 2013

Abstract

Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to explore accountability from the perspective of charity donors.

Design/methodology/approach – The research utilises semi-structured interviews with a range of donors. In addition, it summarises the main findings from key related research (that uses document content analysis and questionnaire surveys) as a basis for better appreciating donor engagement.

Findings – This research offers evidence that while donors are viewed as the key stakeholder to whom a charity should be accountable, the relevance of the information commonly disclosed in formal charity communications is questionable. This is viewed as significant in terms of small dependent donors, although less critical in the case of non-dependent large donors who have power to demand individualised information. However, although all donors do not particularly engage with these formal communications, they are viewed by them as having significance and their production and publication serves as an important legitimising tool in the sector (enhancing trust and reputation).

Research limitations/implications – This research is based on semi-structured interviews with individual small donors and large institutional donors to large UK charities and therefore any generalising of the conclusions beyond large charities, and beyond the UK, should be undertaken with care. In addition, it focuses solely on the perceptions of donors, and other stakeholder groups are also important in this process.

Originality/value – Despite the widespread acceptance that charities have a duty to discharge accountability to their stakeholders, there is limited knowledge of their information needs and whether the performance information currently being disclosed fulfils them. This study provides a unique insight into the perspective of a key stakeholder group (donors) with respect to accountability.

Keywords: Accounting, Charities, Reporting, Stakeholders, United Kingdom

Suggested Citation:

Connolly, Ciaran and Hyndman, Noel, Charity Accountability in the UK: Through the Eyes of the Donor (October 5, 2013). Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Vol. 10 No. 3/4, 2013, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736899
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
J Aaker , S Akutsu , W Liu
The psychology of giving , p. 1 - 41 Posted: 2009
Accounting Standards Board
Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting, ASB, London. Charity accountability in the UK Posted: 1999
Accounting Standards Board
Statement of Principles for Financial Reporting: Interpretation for Public Benefit Entities, ASB, London. Accounting Standards Committee Posted: 1975
Crossref
J Andreoni
Impure altruism and donations to public goods: a theory of warm-glow giving
The Economic Journal , volume 100 , issue 40 , p. 464 - 477 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,460
RANK
444,235
2 Citations
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies