Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Technical Efficiency in Public Institutions: Evidences from Local Government Authorities in Tanzania.

International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 4, No. 2, February 2015

9 Pages Posted: 24 Feb 2016

Sarah Ngomuo

Dongbei University of Finance and Economics, Students

Erasmus Fabian Kipesha

Mzumbe University

Date Written: February 23, 2015

Abstract

The aim of the study was to assess technical efficiency of local government authorities in Tanzania. The study examines the ability of the local authorities in allocating available resource efficiently in the production of output measure by internal revenue generated from local sources. The study used data envelopment analysis (DEA) in estimating the relative efficiency score of the local authorities. The findings of the study show that on average Local government authorities in Tanzania are relatively inefficient hence need to improve in the use of resources and increase the internal revenue generation, hence decrease their dependence to grants and donations from central government and donors. The results also show that scale efficiency was higher than pure technical efficiency for district councils and town council suggesting that the sources of inefficiency is managerial related problems, hence calling improvement in resource management, allocation and decision marking in order to increase their relative efficiencies.

Keywords: Efficiency, Data Envelopment Analysis, Local Government Authorities, Public Institutions, Tanzania

Suggested Citation:

Ngomuo, Sarah and Kipesha, Erasmus Fabian, Assessing Technical Efficiency in Public Institutions: Evidences from Local Government Authorities in Tanzania. (February 23, 2015). International Journal of Management Sciences and Business Research, Vol. 4, No. 2, February 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2736090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
I Abedian , M Biggs
Economic globalization and fiscal policy Posted: 1998
A Afonso , S Fernandes
Measuring local government spending efficiency: Evidence for the Lisbon Region
Regional Studies , volume 40 , p. 39 - 53 Posted: 2006
Crossref
A Afonso , S Fernandes
Assessing and Explaining the Relative efficiency of Local Government
Journal of SocioEconomics , volume 37 , p. 1946 - 1979 Posted: 2008
Crossref
R Althin , L Behrenz
An Efficiency Analysis of Swedish Employment Offices
International Review of Applied Economics , volume 18 , p. 471 - 182 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
732
RANK
668,003
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - Special Topics eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies