Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Audit Opinion, Follow Up Audit Recommendations, and Corruption Perceptions Index Toward Financial Performance of Local Government (Empirical Study of the District/City in Indonesia)

15 Pages Posted: 8 Mar 2016

Alfun Udirizqi

Jenderal Soedirman University, Students

Bambang Setyobudi Setyobudi Irianto

Jenderal Soedirman University

Dr. Sukirman

Jenderal Soedirman University

Date Written: March 2, 2016

Abstract

The success of regional autonomy can not separated from the performance of local governments in managing the local finance. Measurement of financial performance shows the extent to which progress has been achieved of local governments in carrying out their duties and as a benchmark for increase the government's financial performance in the next period. This research aimed to investigate influence of audit opinion, the follow-up audit recommendations, and the corruption perception index toward financial performance of local governments. The sample were selected by using purposive sampling method and the number of samples were 48 samples. Based on the research and analysis of data using multiple linear regression showed that the audit opinion is positive and significant influence toward the financial performance of local governments, while the follow-up audit recommendations and the corruption perception index has no significant influence toward the financial performance of local governments

Suggested Citation:

Udirizqi, Alfun and Setyobudi Irianto, Bambang Setyobudi and Sukirman, Dr., The Influence of Audit Opinion, Follow Up Audit Recommendations, and Corruption Perceptions Index Toward Financial Performance of Local Government (Empirical Study of the District/City in Indonesia) (March 2, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2740881 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2740881
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
241
ABSTRACT VIEWS
900
RANK
290,067
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies