Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Numbers of the Future are Shaping Today: The Role of Forecasts and Calculations in Public-Sector Strategic Thinking

Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 23 Mar 2016

Sara Brorstrom

Gothenburg Research Institute

Date Written: March 23, 2016

Abstract

This article examines the role of numbers in forming a city strategy in the case of Gothenburg, Sweden. The article illustrates how numbers make people act and react and shape the strategy process. The study is situated between the theoretical fields of accounting and strategy processes in cities. By relating them to the concept of ‘governmentality’, numbers are seen as helping render the city governable. Because strategizing is seen as concerning the future, the actors involved in drafting the strategy feel free to challenge historically institutionalized practices. The effect is paradoxical: the future-looking strategy process becomes a forum for solving current problems.

Keywords: public sector, numbers, accounting, strategy, strategy-practice

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Brorstrom, Sara, How Numbers of the Future are Shaping Today: The Role of Forecasts and Calculations in Public-Sector Strategic Thinking (March 23, 2016). Financial Accountability & Management Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2753444
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
826
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies