Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting System in the Public Sector

8 Pages Posted: 31 Mar 2016 Last revised: 28 Mar 2018

Danilo Stentella

University of Siena - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: March 30, 2016

Abstract

The introduction of Cost Accounting is in line with a process of administrative reforms, related to the reform of the State Budget, whose need for transformation of the budget systems is originated from a different setting of economic governance, of public finance and of the community commitments, resulting from the Treaty of Maastricht. More specifically, the economic cost accounting for cost centers, introduced in Italy with the Legislative Decree 7 August 1997 n. 279, it is addressed to detection, verification and cost monitoring, performance and results of administration.

This accounting system makes it possible to evaluate economically, for each organizational structure, the cost of management, by type and destination and to verify the use of resources, allowing a more effective direct control of management and facilitating the preparation of the budget estimates.

Keywords: Accounting system, public sector, Europe public accounting

JEL Classification: H61

Suggested Citation:

Stentella, Danilo, The Accounting System in the Public Sector (March 30, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2756811 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2756811
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,959
RANK
311,586
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies