Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Governance: Factors of Disclosure from the Municipalities of Southern Brazil

Journal of Public Administration and Governance, 2015, Vol. 5, No. 4

22 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2016

Vagner Machado

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS) - Unisinos Business School

Clea Beatriz Macagnan

University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (Unisinos), Unisinos Business School; Visiting Professor

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Governance could be good “when a State efficiently provides public goods of necessary quality to its citizens” (ONU, 2007). Public governance is guided by principles like transparency; that means disclosure information of public resources management. Considering this perspective, this study investigates the explanatory factors of the level of disclosure of the most populous municipalities in southern Brazil on their web pages published on the Internet. For such, we constructed a set of 86 indicators representing information, which were used to measure the level of disclosure of 100 among 101 cities with over 50,000 inhabitants in southern Brazil. The econometric analysis of the evidence indicates that the partisan affiliation of mayors, the level of revenues of municipalities and socioeconomic factors explain the level of disclosure of information about municipal management. Thus, the municipalities with high socioeconomic and collection indices have greater willingness to show public information, while municipalities where mayors are affiliated with the political party PSDB statistically have a tendency to show less information indicators examined in this study, compared to the other parties that make up this study sample.

Keywords: Transparency; Disclosure; Public Management; Local Government; Public Information.

JEL Classification: H70

Suggested Citation:

Machado, Vagner and Macagnan, Clea Beatriz, Public Governance: Factors of Disclosure from the Municipalities of Southern Brazil (2015). Journal of Public Administration and Governance, 2015, Vol. 5, No. 4, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2763992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
Maria F Arruda , José S Teles
A importância do controle social na fiscalização dos gastos públicos
Revista Razão Contábil e Finanças. Fortaleza, n. 1 Posted: 2010
Brasil
Lei nº 4.320, de 17 de março de 1964
Brasil
Constituição da República Federativa do Brasil Posted: 1988
Brasil
Lei nº 8.666, de 21 de junho de 1993
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,192
RANK
856,872
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies