Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Looking at History to Reduce Current Healthcare Costs

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2015

25 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2016

James Byrd

University of Alabama at Birmingham

Douglas Smith

University of Montevallo

Marilyn M. Helms

Dalton State College - Division of Business Administration

Date Written: December 12, 2015

Abstract

When the history of healthcare and insurance in the US is examined, it is clear the patient has become more and more removed from the payment process. Insurers including Medicare moved to pay providers more quickly and eliminated pre-payment by the insured customer beyond a typical small co-payment. The patient is not clear regarding costs and lacks incentives to control spending. The payment process has deviated so far from the traditional accounting three-way payment match that fraud and other issues have surfaced in billing and payment error. This article presents suggestions from accounting’s three-way match process used in purchasing to carefully outline problems and challenges in US healthcare. Discussion and ways to adapt the popular accounting framework for healthcare are presented within the historical context of the changing healthcare reimbursement and payment process. Areas for future research are also included.

Keywords: accounting, healthcare, three-way match, purchasing, patient involvement, fraud, cost control, medical

JEL Classification: M38, I13, I15, I18

Suggested Citation:

Byrd, James and Smith, Douglas and Helms, Marilyn M., Looking at History to Reduce Current Healthcare Costs (December 12, 2015). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 16, No. 3, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2763727
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
R Abelson , S Cohen
Sliver of Medicare Doctors Get Big Share of Payouts, The New York Times Posted: 2009
Acfe
Report to the nations on occupational fraud and abuse: 2012 global fraud study Posted: 2010-10
Crossref
J G Barnes , R Mctavish
Segmenting industrial markets by buyer sophistication
European Journal of Marketing , volume 17 , issue 6 , p. 16 - 34 Posted: 1983
Crossref
A Blumberg , A Davidson
Accidents of history created U.S. health system. NPR: Planet Money Posted: 2009-10-22
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,814
RANK
298,603
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies