Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Knowledge Is Power: Evidence from the Municipal Bond Market

Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming

49 Pages Posted: 5 May 2016 Last revised: 5 Aug 2017

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Date Written: August 4, 2017

Abstract

I investigate whether access to fundamental information enhances retail investors’ bargaining power, reducing the premium that small municipal bond investors pay over large investors. I find a reduction in this small trade premium after the introduction of an online disclosure repository that lowers retail investors’ information acquisition costs. This finding is limited to issuers whose disclosures are disseminated through the repository. The finding is pronounced for issuers that impose high information acquisition costs on investors ex-ante and those that exhibit high disclosure quality ex-post. These results suggest that as investors’ information sets align, so does their bargaining power with dealers.

Keywords: Dealer Markets; Municipal Debt; Information Asymmetry; Asymmetric Bargaining Power; Dissemination

JEL Classification: D82; D83; D43

Suggested Citation:

Cuny, Christine, When Knowledge Is Power: Evidence from the Municipal Bond Market (August 4, 2017). Journal of Accounting and Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2773890 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2773890
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Vladimir A. Atanasov , Bernard S. Black
Online Appendix for the Trouble with Instruments: The Need for Pre-Treatment Balance in Shock-IV Designs
Pages: 86 Posted: 17 Jan 2017 Last revised: 18 Apr 2019
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
H Bessembinder , W Maxwell , K Venkataraman
Market transparency, liquidity externalities, and institutional trading costs in corporate bonds
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 82 , issue 2 , p. 251 - 288 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B J Bushee , C Leuz
Economic consequences of SEC disclosure regulation: Evidence from the OTC bulletin board
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 39 , issue 2 , p. 233 - 264 Posted: 2005
Crossref
T Chordia , R Roll , A Subrahmanyam
Market Liquidity and Trading Activity
The Journal of Finance , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 501 - 530 Posted: 2001
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
385
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,179
RANK
176,143
32 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies