Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Private Sector Failure, a Public Sector Crisis - Reflections on the Great Recession

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

20 Pages Posted: 9 May 2016

Ron Hodges

Birmingham Business School

Irvine Lapsley

IPSAR, University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: May 9, 2016

Abstract

The Great Recession from 2007/08 to date (2016) has challenged policymakers in significant ways. The initial challenge became a mission to rescue the banking sector, which had major implications for public services. The severe constraints on public finances after the rescue resulted in cutbacks in public services; an example of financial conservatism in action. Neoliberalism is the dominant mode of thinking by central governments, but its application has been questioned both on its rigour and on the evidence which is available to inform this policy. This paper examines the UK experiences of financial conservatism by mobilising ideas of failure, hope and bricolage.

Keywords: Banking failure; public sector cutbacks; failure, hope and bricolage

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Hodges, Ron and Lapsley, Irvine, A Private Sector Failure, a Public Sector Crisis - Reflections on the Great Recession (May 9, 2016). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2777620
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
R Albers , L Jonung
Major Crises: Historical Comparisons to the Great Depression and the Classical Gold Standard , p. 26 - 29 Posted: 2010
September
Crossref
M Arnaboldi , I Lapsley , I Steccolini
Performance Management in the Public Sector: The Ultimate Challenge
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 22 Posted: 2015
Crossref
M Attinasi , C Checherita , S Nickel
What explains the surge in Euro area sovereign spreads during the financial crisis of 2007-09? Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
128
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,179
RANK
511,635
1 Citations
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies