Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Performance Audit of Public Funds within the Framework of the Subprogram ‘Support for Small Farms’

Scientific - Theoretical Journal of the Russian Timiryasev State Agricultural University, “Accounting in Agriculture” 2016. No. 1. P. 69-78

15 Pages Posted: 22 May 2016

Lyudmila Khoruzhy

Russian State Agrarian University-Moscow Agricultural Timiryazev Academy

R. Kostina

Russian State Agrarian University-Moscow Agricultural Timiryazev Academy

Irina Kharcheva

Russian State Agrarian University-Moscow Agricultural Timiryazev Academy

Date Written: May 17, 2016

Abstract

The article discusses methodology for audit of state support funds within the State program of agricultural development and regulation of agricultural products, raw materials and food for the period of 2013-2020, and the subprogram ‘Support for small farms’.

Keywords: audit, performance audit, small forms of farming, subsidies, grants

Suggested Citation:

Khoruzhy, Lyudmila and Kostina, R. and Kharcheva, Irina, Performance Audit of Public Funds within the Framework of the Subprogram ‘Support for Small Farms’ (May 17, 2016). Scientific - Theoretical Journal of the Russian Timiryasev State Agricultural University, “Accounting in Agriculture” 2016. No. 1. P. 69-78, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2780802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
12 References
L I Khoruzhii , R V Kostina , I V Kharcheva
Audit the effectiveness of state funds in the framework of the Development of elite seed" // accounting in agriculture , p. 8 - 14
L I Khoruzhii , R V Kostina , I V Kharcheva
Audit the effectiveness of state funds within the project
establishment and care of perennial plantations and vineyards" // accounting in agriculture , p. 15 - 22
L I Khoruzhii , R V Kostina , I V Kharcheva
Audit the effectiveness of state funds under the direction of "Development of crop production in protected the ground"// accounting in agriculture , p. 7 - 12
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
675
RANK
719,188
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Food Politics & Sociology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies