Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Pension Obligations in the European Union: A Case Study for EPSAS and Transnational Budgetary Supervision

14th International Conference on Pension, Insurance and Savings, University of Paris Dauphine and University of Berkeley, Paris, 9 and 10 May, 2016

83rd International Atlantic Economic Conference (IAES), Berlin, 22-25 March 2017

41 Pages Posted: 28 May 2016 Last revised: 20 Feb 2017

Yuri Biondi

Université Paris-Dauphine, PSL Research University - National Center for Scientific Research

Marion Boisseau-Sierra

University of Cambridge - Cambridge Judge Business School

Date Written: May 27, 2016

Abstract

Pension obligations constitute a critical issue for public finances and budgets. This is especially true for the European Union whose institutional mechanism aims to supervise Member States’ spending through centralised budgetary rules based upon financial covenants. In this context, accounting methods of recognition and measurement of pension obligations become an integral and critical aspect of Europe’s transnational budgetary and financial supervision. Drawing upon a comprehensive overview of pension management and regulation, this article aims to analyse the ongoing debate on accounting for pension obligations with a specific attention to the harmonization of European Public Sector Accounting Standards (EPSAS). While the European Commission has been favouring the ‘indisputable reference’ to the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS), European Member States’ practices and views remain inconsistent with the normative solution imposed by the IPSAS 25, which favours and facilitates Definite Contribution pension schemes. In this context, we do summarise the IPSAS position mimicking the IFRS, review the pension’s accounting in national statistics and EPSAS debate, and provide some building blocks for a comprehensive model of accounting for pension obligations that admits and enables several viable modes of pension management.

Keywords: Pension provision, pension benefit, pension liability, IPSAS, EPSAS, pension fund management, actuarial evaluation, public sector accounting regulation, public finances

JEL Classification: H55, G23, G28, M41, M48, K23

Suggested Citation:

Biondi, Yuri and Boisseau-Sierra, Marion, Accounting for Pension Obligations in the European Union: A Case Study for EPSAS and Transnational Budgetary Supervision (May 27, 2016). 14th International Conference on Pension, Insurance and Savings, University of Paris Dauphine and University of Berkeley, Paris, 9 and 10 May, 2016, 83rd International Atlantic Economic Conference (IAES), Berlin, 22-25 March 2017 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2785725 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2785725
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
105 References
H Aaron , N Barr , B Bosworth , R Disney , R Holzmann , E Gramlich
Crossref
M Petrie
Comments on "Recognition of Government Pension Obligations" from Brian Donaghue. Note presented by the group Posted: 2003
Comments on IPSASB Exposure Draft 31 "Employee Benefits
American Academy of Acturaries Posted: 2007
Apb
Accounting for the cost of pension plans. APB Opinion 08 Posted: 1966
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
187
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,914
RANK
370,049
2 Citations
105 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

European Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies