Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Choosing ‘Basics First’ Over Best Practices? An Overview of the Troika's Role on the Greek Central Government Accounting Reforms

"The role of the Troika on the Greek central government accounting reforms: The reprioritization riddle", International Journal of Public Sector Management (Forthcoming)

Posted: 7 Jun 2016 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: June 6, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: This paper explores the role the Troika’s advent played in the progress of the budgeting and the financial reporting systems reformat the Greek central government level.

Design/methodology/approach: The approach of an extreme country-case study is adopted. The data used in the paper have been identified through document analysis performed on the relevant documents produced by the Troika, the Greek Ministry of Finance, and other relevant sources. The reform process is seen through the lens of the neo-institutional theory and the resource dependency theory.

Findings: Although both reforms targeted the introduction of best international practices - particularly useful in periods of financial distress and scarce resources - the advent of the Troika affected their progress and changed the priorities. As a result, the reform was redirected towards strengthening the cash budgeting system.

Originality/value: The role of external fund providers in public sector financial management reform priority-setting, in the case of a developed Eurozone country is analyzed. The study contributes to the research agenda on accounting practices in times of austerity.

Limitations: The study is subject to the limitations of an extreme case study research.

Practical implications: This is a case where resource dependency changes political priorities and directions and affects the evolvement of state budget and accounting reforms under way.

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Choosing ‘Basics First’ Over Best Practices? An Overview of the Troika's Role on the Greek Central Government Accounting Reforms (June 6, 2016). "The role of the Troika on the Greek central government accounting reforms: The reprioritization riddle", International Journal of Public Sector Management (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2790933 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2790933
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies