Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Challenges in Managing Government Payroll Systems in Ghana: The Way Forward

Asian Academic Research Journal of Social Science & Humanities, Volume 2, Issue 1, June 2015

24 Pages Posted: 14 Jun 2016 Last revised: 28 Sep 2016

Kannyiri Banyen

University for Development Studies; University for Development Studies; GSB, University of Cape Town

Mumuni Nasamu

KNUST

Date Written: June 1, 2015

Abstract

The study was conducted to investigate the challenges of the return mechanized voucher system of payroll management in Ghana. The study therefore evaluated the system of payroll management used in Ghana prior to the introduction of the electronic pay voucher system, with a view of finding solutions that would make payroll management in Ghana as effective and efficient as possible. This was done through a field survey of 200 major stakeholders. The study found that the return mechanized voucher system is wrought with major challenges such as delays in payment voucher preparation and distribution, poor and slow error detection and correction, existence of "ghost names" and mass corruption. These challenges have made the return mechanised voucher system very unattractive and hence the need for a change in the payroll management system used in the country. The study concludes that despite the fact that the empirical evidence on the challenges of the return mechanized voucher system used in payroll management in Ghana are glaring, the country should not be too quick to adopt the electronic payment voucher system. The country has several options in its bid to make the payroll system more effective and efficient. Each of these options should be assessed on merit and the best option chosen. This will go a long way to help make the payroll management in Ghana as efficient as possible.

Keywords: Return Mechanised Voucher, Government Payroll, Challenges

JEL Classification: H23

Suggested Citation:

Banyen, Kannyiri and Banyen, Kannyiri and Nasamu, Mumuni, Challenges in Managing Government Payroll Systems in Ghana: The Way Forward (June 1, 2015). Asian Academic Research Journal of Social Science & Humanities, Volume 2, Issue 1, June 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2795032
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
L O Aina
Research in Information Science: an African Perspective , p. 11 - 64 Posted: 2002
J Amoako-Tuffour
Institute of Economic Affairs, Occassional Papers No. 34 Posted: 2002
J Amoako-Tuffour
Ghost Workers and the Public Sector Wage Bill
Feature Article of Thursday Posted: 2007-06-15
P Atengdem
Increasing the Relative Income of Women and its Effect on Socioeconomic Status: A Case in Northern Ghana Posted: 1995-09-02
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
386
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,869
RANK
175,588
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies