Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Beyond Bean-Counting: The Role of Costs During the Charlotte-Douglas Airport Takeover

Posted: 8 Jul 2016

Zachary Mohr

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Charlotte

Date Written: July 5, 2016

Abstract

When it is discussed, accounting is often viewed as a technical subject that is often of little consequence to politics or political science. The cost of a project or the cost of a program is, however, an important political issue – especially in times of fiscal stress. So, while it is well known that cost is a politically salient issue, much less is known about the role of costs and how the cost process gets elevated into the political discussion. This research looks at the role of cost accounting and cost development in the recent takeover of the Charlotte-Douglas airport by the state of North Carolina. It examines the statements made in the North Carolina media and in technical documents concerning the costs of the airport. This case represents a pathway case study of the politicization of costs in the relatively technical area of accounting for a local government enterprise fund. Specifically, it seeks to answer the question of whether costs were a major concern from the beginning of the takeover or whether they were elevated to prominence as further justification once the takeover was contested? The research makes three important contributions to the study of politics and government financial management. First, it shows that costs were important to the discussion of the takeover. Second, it provides some evidence on how costs become politicized. Third, it provides more research on cost accounting in the United States, which is an area that is severely underdeveloped and in need of scholarship.

Suggested Citation:

Mohr, Zachary, Beyond Bean-Counting: The Role of Costs During the Charlotte-Douglas Airport Takeover (July 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2805233
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
596
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Transportation Terminals eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies