Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit Disclosures in Annual Reports of Metropolitan Municipalities in South Africa

Journal of Governance and Regulation, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 44-50, 2016

24 Pages Posted: 28 Jul 2016

Christo Ackermann

University of Johannesburg

Ben Marx

University of Johannesburg

Houdini Fourie

Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU)

Date Written: January 20, 2016

Abstract

The role of internal audit in governance contributes significantly to accountability. However, its work is limited to internal use, and as such, it does not provide external stakeholders with information about the accountability contributions made by the internal audit function (IAF).

The assurance provided by internal audit is equally important as the assurance provided by external auditors. Arguments exist that the inclusion of internal audit disclosure in public annual reports could contribute significantly to transparency and accountability in respect of municipalities. Literature suggest that the advantages of internal audit disclosure outweigh its disadvantages.

This paper reports on the extent of internal audit disclosure in the eight metropolitan municipalities in South Africa for the 2012/2013 financial year. To achieve the objective set out in this paper, a mixed method approach was followed. A qualitative content analysis (deductive and inductive) was performed. Qualitative text was displayed showing evidence of the disclosure item (visual presentation of quotes). To complement the qualitative text, Atlas.Ti was further utilised to quantify the codes which showed the differences in the disclosure practices of IAFs across metropolitan municipalities in South Africa.

The results of this study show evidence of internal audit disclosure in annual reports despite the fact that no legislative requirements exist for internal audit to report in annual reports of municipalities. The extent and the nature of disclosure varied across metropolitan municipalities in South Africa. The results of this paper could be used to assist with establishing policy guidelines for internal audit disclosure.

Keywords: Internal Auditing, Local Municipalities, Metropolitan Municipalities, South Africa, Disclosure, Annual Reports, AtlasTi

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ackermann, Christo and Marx, Ben and Fourie, Houdini, Internal Audit Disclosures in Annual Reports of Metropolitan Municipalities in South Africa (January 20, 2016). Journal of Governance and Regulation, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 44-50, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2815250
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
D S Archambeault , F T Dezoort , T P Holt
The Need for an Internal Auditor Report to External Stakeholders to
Improve Governance Transparency. Accounting Horizons , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 375 - 388 Posted: 2008
Crossref
E Babbie , J Mouton
The practice of social research Posted: 2012
D M Boyle
The Effects of Internal Audit Report Type and Reporting Relationships on Internal Auditors' Judgments. Unpublished doctoral dissertation Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Burnaby , S Hass , M J Abdolmohammadi
A survey of internal auditors to establish the scope of the common body of knowledge study in 2006
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 21 , issue 8 , p. 854 - 868 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
214
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,362
RANK
325,828
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies