Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Ex-Ante Monitoring Role of Accounting Covenants in Public Debt

Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 4 Aug 2016

Zahn Bozanic

Florida State University

Date Written: May 12, 2016

Abstract

In contrast to what is known about accounting covenants in private debt, little empirical evidence on the role of accounting covenants in public debt exists. Diffuse ownership, arm’s length monitoring, and collective action problems are unique to the public debt setting and raise the question of whether these covenants serve their intended role. As such, this study investigates whether including covenants reliant upon accounting inputs influences borrowers’ actions to prevent adverse credit events. Accounting covenants in the public debt setting provide firms with a disciplining mechanism to renegotiate ahead of costly technical default — a stark contrast to the ex-post renegotiation “trip wire” role covenants play in private debt. In particular, the results show that including accounting covenants in public debt is associated with an increased probability of ex-ante renegotiation, that is, negotiation through consent solicitations ahead of covenant violation. This ex-ante renegotiation, in turn, is associated with decreased adverse credit events. Cross-sectional results support these findings as the ex-ante renegotiation role of accounting covenants varies with bondholders’ and trustees’ monitoring ability.

Keywords: Public debt, bonds, covenants, consent solicitations, monitoring, renegotiation, information environment quality, financial reporting quality

JEL Classification: G32, L14, M41

Suggested Citation:

Bozanic, Zahn, The Ex-Ante Monitoring Role of Accounting Covenants in Public Debt (May 12, 2016). Journal of Business Finance & Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2817554
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies