Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accountability and Internal Control in Religious Organisations: A Study of Methodist Church Ghana

African J. Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2016

Posted: 19 Aug 2016

Ben Kwame Agyei-Mensah

Solbridge International School of Business

Date Written: August 6, 2016

Abstract

This paper studied the financial accountability and internal control practices of societies within the Kumasi Diocese of the Methodist church. A questionnaire survey was used to collect the data from 86 societies out of the 115 (75%) of the Kumasi Diocese. Secondary data was collected from books, journals, annual reports of churches and related researches from the internet. Descriptive statistics was used to analyse the data. The results indicate that the church can improve its internal control system with regard to receipt of income and disbursement of funds. Establishing segregation of duties, recording of financial transactions and authorising the disbursement of funds can greatly improve internal controls. Though this is an exploratory study, it may provide the basis for further studies in examining the internal control practices in other religious organisations in Ghana.

Keywords: financial management; internal control systems; not-for-profit

Suggested Citation:

Agyei-Mensah, Ben Kwame, Accountability and Internal Control in Religious Organisations: A Study of Methodist Church Ghana (August 6, 2016). African J. Accounting, Auditing and Finance, Vol. 5, No. 2, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2819529
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,470
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies