Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Applying BPR and Balanced Score Card for Project Appraisal and Evaluation Framework for Not for Profit Firms

9 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2016

Shashi Kadapa

BVB College of Engineering and Technology, Hubli

Date Written: August 8, 2016

Abstract

The paper reviews Business Process Re engineering (BPR) techniques along with the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) to improve the reporting or project performance, project appraisal and approval process for not for profit organizations. For profit organizations or commercial organizations have clearly defined business objectives and these include increase in revenue, reduction in costs, and increased profits. However, in not for profit firms, the motivation for taking up projects and the organization objectives is not to make profits but to provide help the poor and needy. The paper examines workflows and the project appraisal process in such organizations. BPR measures are suggested to make the project appraisal process transparent. Seven perspectives are identified for the BSC and indicators are suggested for each of these perspectives. The project appraisal process is designed to provide inputs for these indicators. The recommendation is to use benchmarked figures for these indicators from the best projects and other external sources and these indicators can to be used for the BSC. A draft BSC template is designed and further suggestions and recommendations to improve the research are made.

Keywords: Balanced Score Card, Business Process Reengineering, Non-Profit Firms, BSC Template

Suggested Citation:

Kadapa, Shashi, Applying BPR and Balanced Score Card for Project Appraisal and Evaluation Framework for Not for Profit Firms (August 8, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2822241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2822241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Project Appraisal Processes and Procedures Toolkit: Asian Development Bank. Retrieved 25 July Posted: 2009
Crossref
Z Ahmed
Comparative Significance of the Four Perspectives of Balanced Scorecard
Research Paper Posted: 2009
A Al-Mudimigh
CRM scorecard-based management system: Performance evaluation of Saudi Arabian banks
Journal of Digital Asset Management , volume 5 , p. 347 - 351 Posted: 2009
Crossref
H M Ali
Business process re-engineering (BPR) implementation in Malaysian service organisations: a study from the perspectives of customers and employees Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,021
ABSTRACT VIEWS
5,608
RANK
50,895
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies