Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating the Effectiveness of Government Mandated Performance Management Systems: A Field Experiment

29 Pages Posted: 16 Aug 2016

Fabienne Miller

Worcester Polytechnic Institute

Justin Wang

Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI)

Date Written: August 14, 2016

Abstract

The public sector has attempted to improve organizational performance by borrowing elements of performance management systems (PMS) from the private sector and imposing those systems on organizations. The health care sector has provided the setting for numerous implementations of such systems aimed at improving quality. However, the effectiveness of those PMS is unclear. We analyze the effectiveness of government mandated PMS by addressing two research questions. First, does the public disclosure of relative performance information (RPI) improve firm performance? Second, is there an incremental effect of mandated pay-for-performance (P4P) plans? We study two such concurrent initiatives in health care to tease out the respective effect of RPI and P4P: the reporting and public disclosure of relative performance measures by acute hospitals (implemented nationwide by CMS, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services) and the Massachusetts P4P plan (implemented by MassHealth).Examination of process measures of quality used in the United States over a six-year period demonstrates the effectiveness of RPI. Yet, the Massachusetts P4P plan does not appear to be associated with incremental performance improvement. These results are consistent with our argument that the P4P plan implemented by MassHealth might have been crowded out by the CMS reporting and disclosure plan and did not provide sufficient motivation to individual employees to improve above and beyond the informational effect of RPI. Findings from this study are especially important as CMS is revamping its payment system and focusing on value-based purchasing.

Keywords: pay-for-performance, compensation, incentives, motivation, information effect, relative performance information, performance management system

JEL Classification: H51, M41

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Fabienne and Wang, Justin, Evaluating the Effectiveness of Government Mandated Performance Management Systems: A Field Experiment (August 14, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2823158 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2823158
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
***
***
Crossref
S W Anderson , H C Dekker , K L Sedatole
An empirical examination of goals and performance-to-goal following the introduction of an incentive bonus plan with participative goal setting
Management Science , volume 56 , issue 1 , p. 90 - 109 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R D Banker , S Lee , G Potter
A field study of the impact of a performance-based incentive plan
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 418 - 419 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,931
RANK
403,275
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies