Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Why Government Institutions in Developing Countries Cannot Account for Public Funds: Empirical Evidence from Cross River State of Nigeria

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 1, February, 2016

13 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2016

William Inyang

University of Calabar

Date Written: February 1, 2016

Abstract

The study investigated why MDAs in African countries cannot account for public funds. A 5-point likert scale questionnaire was used to collect primary data from 62 staff members of State and Local government auditor-general’s offices who participated in the study. Five hypotheses were formulated and tested for the study using multiple regression. The study attributed the occurrence of unretired imprests in Cross River State MDAs to the following factors: lack of budgetary provisions, fraudulent delegation of imprest retirement and improper reimbursement of imprests and it was further revealed that off-budget expenditures and non-retirement of imprests by other heads of departments have little or no association with unretired imprests. The study therefore, recommended that overhead cost budgets of the MDAs be constantly revised and appropriate sanctions be levelled against MDA officials who engage in fraudulent delegation of accountability over the imprest funds and improper reimbursement of imprests.

Keywords: Unretired Imprests, Budgetary Provisions, Off-Budget Expenditures, Retirement of Imprest, and Reimbursement of Imprest and Overhead Cost Budget

Suggested Citation:

Inyang, William, Why Government Institutions in Developing Countries Cannot Account for Public Funds: Empirical Evidence from Cross River State of Nigeria (February 1, 2016). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 1, February, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834492
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
J A Adeshoba
Internal audit procedures and operations challenges and initiatives Posted: 2011
A F Amayah
Evolving accounting procedures for fraud control in the public sector in Nigeria Posted: 2000
Report of the Auditor-General on the Accounts of the Government of Cross River State for the year ended
Annual Report and Account Posted: 2009-12-31
Report of the Auditor-General on the Accounts of the Government of Cross River State for the year ended
Annual Report and Account Posted: 2010-12-31
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
94
ABSTRACT VIEWS
838
RANK
644,872
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies