Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Under-Funding the Supreme Audit Institution Amidst the Rising Unauthorized Extra-Budgetary Expenditures in Nigeria: Is Deliberate Under-Funding a Fraud-Concealing Device?

Research Paper Series, Research Journal of Finance and Accounting. Vol.7, No.16, 2016

10 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2016

William Inyang

University of Calabar

Date Written: August 31, 2016

Abstract

The executive (federal government of Nigeria) has recently been accused by the lower legislative house of deliberately underfunding SAI (office of the Auditor-General of the Nigeria federation) in order to conceal fraud. The legislature was reacting to the erratic reduction of SAI’s budget from N1.9 billion to N100 million when illegal extra-budgetary expenditure of about N16 trillion occurs annually. This study was therefore, carried out to determine whether the executive can conceal fraud by deliberately underfunding the supreme audit institution. In order to fulfil the study objective and answer the question posed by the study problem, internet sources, journal articles and literature review were used to generate relevant data for the research. The study revealed that deliberate underfunding of SAI to conceal fraud and other emerging fraud concealing devices are additional challenges to the existing ones and that the accusation of the executive (the auditee) of deliberately underfunding SAI to conceal fraud is true only to the extent that SAI’s budget and finances are controlled by the executive. The study recommended that financial autonomy, improved executive capacity, use of proactive approaches to eliminate fraud concealing devices will minimize audit challenges ensuring that SAI is not also contributing to the challenges it is currently facing.

Keywords: Deliberate underfunding, supreme audit institution, unauthorized extra-budgetary expenditure, fraud-concealing device, the executive and the legislature

Suggested Citation:

Inyang, William, Under-Funding the Supreme Audit Institution Amidst the Rising Unauthorized Extra-Budgetary Expenditures in Nigeria: Is Deliberate Under-Funding a Fraud-Concealing Device? (August 31, 2016). Research Paper Series, Research Journal of Finance and Accounting. Vol.7, No.16, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834469
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
R References Abdullahi , N Mansor , M S Nuhu
Fraud triangle theory and fraud diamond theory:Understanding the convergent and divergent for future research
European Journal of Business and Management , volume 7 , issue 28 , p. 30 - 37 Posted: 2015
H Abdullah , B Valentine
Fundamental and ethics theories of corporate governance
Middle Eastern Finance and Economics , issue 4 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2009
A Adegoke
Why Buhari has refused to sign the 2016 budget -Femi Adesina Posted: 2016-04-26
K Brown
Auditors' methods make it hard to uncover fraud by executives
The Wall Street Journal Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
Oliver Nnamdi Okafor , Festus Adebisi , Michael Opara , Chidinma Okafor
Deployment of Whistleblowing as an Accountability Mechanism To Curb Corruption and Fraud in a Developing Democracy
Okafor, O.N., Adebisi, F.A., Opara, M. and Okafor, C.B. (2020), "Deployment of whistleblowing as an accountability mechanism to curb corruption and fraud in a developing democracy", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 33 No. 6, pp. 1335-1366. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-12-2018-3780 · 32 Pages · Posted: 3 May 2021 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
204
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
340,955
1 Citations
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies