Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Critical Literature Review: Reasons Why Illegal Extra-Budgetary Expenditures are Incurred by Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAS) in Nigeria

Research Paper Series, Research Journal of Finance and Accounting. Vol.7, No.14, 2016

6 Pages Posted: 7 Sep 2016

William Inyang

University of Calabar

Date Written: July 31, 2016

Abstract

Nigeria’s extra-budgetary or off-budget activities which did not pass through the usual legislative process of appropriation between 2006 and 2015 amounted to N21.8 trillion (about $109 billion)! In order to discover areas for further research, this study critically reviews the reasons why illegal or unauthorized extra-budgetary expenditures incessantly occur in Nigeria’s public sector. The findings from the literature show that the occurrence of illegal or unauthorized extra-budgetary expenditures in Nigeria is due to the following factors: insincerity, lack of knowledge and experience in budgeting and financial management, political considerations, lack of consistent legal framework, non-disclosure of extra-budgetary funds and audit failure. These findings consequently revealed the following critical areas in the existing literature that require further research: funding of the supreme audit institution, legislative oversight functions and use of government sanctions.

Keywords: Illegal extra-budgetary expenditures, extra-budgetary expenditures, extra-budgetary funds, legislative process of appropriation, fraud triangle theory and agency theory

Suggested Citation:

Inyang, William, A Critical Literature Review: Reasons Why Illegal Extra-Budgetary Expenditures are Incurred by Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAS) in Nigeria (July 31, 2016). Research Paper Series, Research Journal of Finance and Accounting. Vol.7, No.14, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834257
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
O Bukola
The Jonathan-metricks of fuel subsidy scam. Premium Times Posted: 2013
E Ebhomele
Saraki blames National Assembly for improper budget scrutiny Posted: 2016
I Ekott
Investigation: Ministers violate monetization policy, illegally spend billions on exotic cars. Premium Times Posted: 2012
N A El Rufai
Nigeria: Budget 2013-motion without movement. Premium Times Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
132
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
499,164
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies