Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of the Release of Imprest to Units within Public Institutions of Developing Countries: Evidence from University of Calabar, Nigeria

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 73-88, April 5, 2016

16 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2016

William Inyang

University of Calabar

Date Written: April 5, 2016

Abstract

It is not clear why imprest funds which are solely used for the implementation of the overhead cost budget are not effectively released to spending units found within public institutions of developing countries. The current study was therefore, carried out to discover the reasons why academic departments of a public institution like Nigeria’s university of calabar do not receive their monthly imprests every 9 out of 12 times per annum (i.e. imprest funds are not released 75 percent of the time!). Primary data were collected using a 5-point likert scale questionnaire while six hypotheses were formulated and tested for the study using multiple regressions. The study revealed that delay in the release of imprest funds to spending units of public institutions was due to management’s lack of confidence in the spending units’ overhead cost budgets, cumbersomeness of procedures for releasing imprest, late retirement of imprest and personal considerations while late budget approval and side-lining of units’ finance officers had negligible or no association with the delay in the release of imprest. The study therefore, recommended that public institutions’ managements should demonstrate commensurate confidence in their units’ overhead cost budgets, adopt time-saving imprest procedures and place appropriate sanctions against late retirement of imprest and personal considerations.

Keywords: Release of Imprest Funds, Confidence in the Overhead Cost Budget, Budget Approval Date, Imprest Payment Procedures, Imprest Retirement Period, Side-Lining of Finance Officers and Personal Considerations

Suggested Citation:

Inyang, William, Determinants of the Release of Imprest to Units within Public Institutions of Developing Countries: Evidence from University of Calabar, Nigeria (April 5, 2016). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance, Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 73-88, April 5, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2834494
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
of the Release of Imprest to Units within Public Institutions of Developing Countries: Evidence from University of Calabar
Crossref
What are the key reasons? 2013; Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development Posted: 2012-12
J A Adeshoba
Internal audit procedures and operations challenges and initiatives Posted: 2011
C Akorli
The cold facts of delays in common fund disbursement
Ghana Business News (GBN) Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
209
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,107
RANK
333,158
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies