Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Participatory Budgeting and Transparency in Municipal Finances

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016

19 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2016

H. Crossman

Brooklyn College; CUNY

Dov Fischer

CUNY Brooklyn College

Date Written: September 12, 2016

Abstract

In the recessionary years following the 2008 financial crisis, prominent voices predicted an imminent crisis in state and municipal finances. The voices – including Bill Gates, Josh Ruah, Meredith Whitney, Paul Volcker, and Richard Ravitch – declared or implied that the road to fiscal responsibility lies in reining in the pensions and benefits of public servants. We argue that painting public employees as villains introduces divisiveness in what should be a universal goal of sound public finances. We suggest that the road to fiscal responsibility lies with budgetary transparency and widespread public knowledge of state and municipal finances. A potential key to achieving these objectives is participatory budgeting. We motivate a research question on the local government level: Does participatory budgeting increase transparency? Although it is too early to test this question on the local level, we use country-level data from the International Budgetary Partnership to explore ways to operationalize budgetary transparency in order to measure the association between participatory budgeting and budgetary transparency.

Keywords: Participatory budgeting, state and local governments, transparency, open budgets, open governments, citizen’s budgets, International Budget Project

JEL Classification: H5, H6, H7, H83

Suggested Citation:

Crossman, H. and Fischer, Dov, Participatory Budgeting and Transparency in Municipal Finances (September 12, 2016). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy, Vol. 17, No. 3, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2837866
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
J Alt , D Dreyer-Lasses , D Skilling
Fiscal Transparency, Gubernatorial Approval, and the Scale of Government: Evidence from the States
State Politics and Policy Quarterly , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 230 - 250 Posted: 2002
Crossref
J Alt , D Lasses , S Rose
The Causes of Fiscal Transparency: Evidence from U.S. States. IMF Staff Papers 53 Posted: 2006
G Baiocchi , J Lerner
Could Participatory Budgeting work in the United States?
The Good Society , volume 16 , issue 1 , p. 8 - 13 Posted: 2007
Crossref
B Benito , F Bastida
Budget Transparency, Fiscal Performance, and Political Turnout: An International Approach
Public Administration Review , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 417 Posted: 2009-05
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Carlo Maria Palermo
Hamon and Socialist Programme on Budget, EU, Eurozone
16 Pages · Posted: 22 Jul 2020 · Last revised: 23 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 42
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
498
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,245
RANK
130,343
1 Citations
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies