Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effectiveness of Reforms in Public Sector Accounting and Financial Management: The Case of Spain, 2010-2015

24 Pages Posted: 30 Sep 2016 Last revised: 10 Oct 2016

Yulia Kasperskaya

University of Barcelona

Ramon Xifre

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF); University of Navarra, IESE Business School

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 18, 2016

Abstract

This paper interprets through theoretical lenses the public sector financial management reforms adopted in Spain between 2010 and 2015. In this period, coping with intense external pressure, the country passed many fiscally-oriented reforms to escape the 2008 crisis including a change in the constitution. We study the changes that have been adopted in three key public accounting and financial management areas: budgeting, reporting and auditing. Our main research question is whether this series of reforms are likely to have had a disruptive and positive impact in the Spanish public sector management model. We approach the question in the light of three theoretical contexts: the resource dependence model, the logic of discipline and the leadership-task perspective. Our analysis does not support a strong affirmative answer to the question. The fiscal crisis has been averted but it appears that it is more because of discretionary consolidation efforts rather than the result of adopting structural policies. Our work also highlights some dimensions in which Spain is lagging behind leading practices in the EU. Value for money auditing and accountability standards are still low and the independence of certain critical bodies is not sufficiently protected.

Keywords: budgeting, public finance, reforms

JEL Classification: H60, H83

Suggested Citation:

Kasperskaya, Yulia and Xifre, Ramon, The Effectiveness of Reforms in Public Sector Accounting and Financial Management: The Case of Spain, 2010-2015 (April 18, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2845351 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2845351
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
Albi , J Onrubia
Institucionalizar la evaluación económica de políticas públicas: eficiencia y rentabilidad social
Papeles de Economía Española , volume 147 , p. 50 - 67 Posted: 2016
Airef
Opinion: Cambios en procedimientos del ciclo presupuestario Posted: 2014
M Andrle , J Bluedorn , L Eyraud , T Kinda , P K Brooks , G Schwarts , A Weber
Reforming Fiscal Governance in the European Union Posted: 2015
Crossref
S J Bailey , P Valkama , S Salonen
The EU's public finance crisis: causes, consequences and cure
Public Money & Management , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 93 - 90 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,380
RANK
187,425
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies