Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Embedded Government Control and Nonprofit Revenue Growth

Forthcoming, Public Administration Review

Posted: 12 Oct 2016

Na Ni

Shenzhen University

Xueyong Zhan

Department of Management and Marketing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Date Written: October 12, 2016

Abstract

This research combines insights from resource dependence and institutional theories to examine the growth of Chinese nonprofit revenues. We propose the concept of “embedded government control” (EGC) to capture the complexity of government-nonprofit relationship: government regulation of nonprofits’ public fundraising qualification and the political embeddedness of nonprofits with the government. Using a dataset of 2,159 Chinese philanthropic foundations for the period of 2005-2012, we tested hypotheses about the implications of EGC for nonprofit revenues in China following two major external shocks, the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 and the Guo Meimei scandal in 2011. Our empirical analysis shows that EGC can help philanthropic foundations get more government subsidies, donations, and market revenue. Yet, external shocks may either strengthen or weaken the enabling role of EGC in helping foundations acquire relatively more donations.

Keywords: NPO, China, Foundations

Suggested Citation:

Ni, Na and Zhan, Xueyong, Embedded Government Control and Nonprofit Revenue Growth (October 12, 2016). Forthcoming, Public Administration Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2851334
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,374
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies