Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Basic Accounting in European Projects

Annals of the University of Craiova for Journalism, Communication and Management, 2, 119-130, 2016

12 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2016

Alina Motoi

University of Craiova, Students

Aurelia Dumitru

University of Craiova, Students

Liviu Curelaru

University of Craiova, Students

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

In this article is analysed the problem of the accounting assessment within the projects financed from grants/non-refundable fonds. The article aims to gather all the directives and regulations which are used for the accounting records in relation with the structural funds. In addition, it is aimed the identification and stressing of the main aspects of the European funds accounting. The researching methodology consists of both the qualitative method, and the quantitative one, highlighting the characteristics theoretically, but also practically, from a descriptive conceptual perspective.

Keywords: structural funds, beneficiary, distinct analytical accounts, Management Authority, prefinancing, reimbursement

JEL Classification: M40, M41, F21, F36

Suggested Citation:

Motoi, Alina and Dumitru, Aurelia and Curelaru, Liviu, Basic Accounting in European Projects (2016). Annals of the University of Craiova for Journalism, Communication and Management, 2, 119-130, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2852702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
20 References
N Abuassi , H Alkorashy , A Avram , C D Avram , V Avram
Relationship between learning style and readiness for self-directed learning among nursing students at king Saud university, Saudi Arabia
International Journal of Advanced Nursing Studies , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 49 - 66 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M Avram
Management contabil. Craiova: Universitaria Posted: 2010
M Avram , V Avram
Considerations Regarding the Accounting Principles Applied in Insolvency Proceedings , p. 172 - 177 Posted: 2014
Crossref
I G Bărbulescu , D Răpan
Dicţionar explicativ trilingv al Uniunii Europene: trilingual dictionary of the European Union; dictionnaire explicatif trilingue de l'Union européenne
Piaţa financiară internaţională sub impactul globalizării economice. Universitaria Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
915
RANK
627,303
20 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies