Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Institutional Entrepreneurship, Practice Memory, and Cultural Memory: Choice and Creativity in the Pursuit of Endogenous Change of Local Authority Budgeting

Forthcoming, Management Accounting Research

Posted: 2 Nov 2016

Thomas Ahrens

United Arab Emirates University (UAEU) - Accounting

Laurence Ferry

University of Durham

Date Written: November 2, 2016

Abstract

This paper explores how a lower government organisation can act as an institutional entrepreneur. It builds on recent public sector budgeting research that identified the endogenisation of budget rules as an important element of institutional entrepreneurship. Inspired by a Wittgensteinian practice theory we identify rules as one element of budget practices and proceed to investigate the endogenisation of another element, termed teleoaffective structure. It refers to the objectives and ends of a practice and the moods and emotions with which they tend to be associated. We develop our argument with reference to two innovative accounting practices developed by Newcastle City Council in order to address radical cutbacks of their central government grants. We emphasise the historical dimension of the endogenisation of teleoaffective structure and show in particular the potential significance of practice memory and cultural memory for shaping teleoaffective structure.

Keywords: Neo-Institutional Theory, Institutional entrepreneurs, Budgeting, Local Government, Practice Theory, Practice Memory, Cultural memory

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Ahrens, Thomas and Ferry, Laurence, Institutional Entrepreneurship, Practice Memory, and Cultural Memory: Choice and Creativity in the Pursuit of Endogenous Change of Local Authority Budgeting (November 2, 2016). Forthcoming, Management Accounting Research, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2862910
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,152
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies