Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Literature Review on Public Sector Accounting Research

The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, Volume 5, Issue 1, Page 39-52, 2016

14 Pages Posted: 1 Dec 2016

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Mahfuzul Hoque

University of Dhaka

Date Written: June 30, 2016

Abstract

This paper is aimed to review the public sector accounting research (PSAR). Through the review of the papers published from 1992 to 2015, the nature, trends and character of PSAR have been tried to identify. To do this a number of papers have been reviewed including special issues of the renowned journal published on the public sector accounting (PSA). To conduct the review, three justified aspects of PSA research have been used – theory initiation of reforming the PSA, practice of reforming the PSA and standards development for reforming the PSA. The review finds that over the time, the trends of PSAR have been changed and have been enriched from different areas. While once the researches used to concentrate more on the adoption of developed standards, a number of contemporary researches concentrate on comparative adoption, innovation in practice and probable integration with the new areas.

Keywords: Public Sector Accounting, Public Sector Accounting Research, Literature Review, Trends

JEL Classification: H72, H83, L32

Suggested Citation:

Rajib, Md Salah Uddin and Hoque, Mahfuzul, A Literature Review on Public Sector Accounting Research (June 30, 2016). The Jahangirnagar Journal of Business Studies, Volume 5, Issue 1, Page 39-52, 2016 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2875995
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
P Adhikari , K Timoshenko , L Garseth-Nesbakk
Reforming central government accounting in diverse contexts: A three-country comparison
International Journal of Public Sector Performance Management , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 44 - 60 Posted: 2012
Crossref
P Adhikari , C Kuruppu , S Matilal
Dissemination and institutionalization of public sector accounting reforms in less developed countries: A comparative study of the Nepalese and Sri Lankan central governments
Accounting Forum , volume 37 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 230 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Allen , G D Sanders
Financial disclosures in US municipalities: Has the governmental accounting standard board made a difference?
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 175 - 193 Posted: 1994
Crossref
R H Attmore , D M Mead , K Betz
Benefits and challenges of working with other standards-setters
Journal of Government Financial Management , volume 57 , issue 1 , p. 11 - 13 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,951
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,206
RANK
19,360
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies