Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reforming state budgeting in the vortex of policy conditionality, political instability and technical support flux

Meditari Accountancy Research (accepted for publication)

Posted: 29 Nov 2016 Last revised: 22 Feb 2021

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: Feb 18, 2021

Abstract

Purpose–Greece had to undertake several reforms under intense policy conditionality pressures -stemming from the three financial support programs agreed between the Greek government and the Troika- and political instability. Within this context, this study aims at analyzing the role of politicians and technical assistance staff in the administrative reform of the Greek state budget.
Design/methodology/approach– The study adopts the approach of an extreme country-case study which is analyzed through a theoretical framework with insights from the resource dependency theory and the concept of policy conditionality. The theoretical framework is supported by documents of the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, including the technical Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) and their progress reports, and is informed by the outcome of interviews with General Accounting Office executives.
Findings – While the budget reform eventually met the MoU requirements, the frequent changes at the government level, the constant renegotiations with the Troika that initiated changes to the plan, as well as the instability of the technical assistance teams formed to support the reform contributed to important implementation delays.
Originality/value – The study contributes to the research agenda on accounting reforms during periods of financial crises by providing evidence on the role of politicians’ level of ownership and technical assistance staff contribution.


Keywords: budget, Greece, politicians, resistance to change, resource dependency, the Troika

JEL Classification: M40, M48, H61

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, Reforming state budgeting in the vortex of policy conditionality, political instability and technical support flux (Feb 18, 2021). Meditari Accountancy Research (accepted for publication), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2876319 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2876319
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,022
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies