Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Conditional Conservatism on Cost of Debt and Mediation Role of CSR Disclosure: Empirical Evidences from IDX

OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 09, No. 09, pp. 19-34, 2016

16 Pages Posted: 5 Dec 2016

Idrianita Anis

Trisakti University - Accounting Department, Faculty of Economic and Business

Sidharta Utama

University of Indonesia - Faculty of Economic and Business

Date Written: September 30, 2016

Abstract

A number of previous studies have found evidences that corporate social responsibility disclosure (CSRD) are positively related corporate sustainable performance. These result indicate that socially responsible firms have good management system, more transparent, good reputation that will impact to financial outcomes. Other significant findings regarding CSR initiatives shown that CSR reporting has positive market consequences, where social responsible firms is likely to have ease of access to financing. A number of studies have been conducted with consistent result to consensus that the higher level of CSRD, the lower cost of equity capital. However very limited studies have been conducted to study relation of CSRD and cost of debt. Further studies about this topic are important because debt financing play an important role as external financing to enhance firms’ growth. Characteristics of debt market which is less risky and less volatile than equity market, attract wider coverage of firms to implement CSR practices. Under contracting theory, the banks as dominant lenders require borrowers to adopt accounting conservatism principle in their debt covenant. Accounting conservatism is a mean of constraining moral hazard caused by parties of the firms having asymmetric information, asymmetric pay-off. Especially in the debt contract the existence of conservatism as stringent standard in revenue recognition largely derived from the need to protect the lenders. Scholars argue CSRD that are prepared under spirit of conservatism could be perceived to give information to predict borrowers’ risk. This study aimed to find evidences how CSRD could effect in lower COD. This research is questioning “Do banks give value on CSRD on their lending decision?” This study argue that quality of CSRD should be determined by level adoption of accounting conservatism adopted in firms accounting system. This research proposes to examine direct effect of conditional conservatism (CONSV) on COD, and the indirect effect of CONSV on COD through mediation role of CSRD. In addition we propose to examine three links: 1) Whether CONSV have negative effect on COD, 2) Whether CONSV have positif effect on CSRD, and 3) Whether CSRD have negative effect on COD. This study using sample manufacturing firms listed at Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) period 2011-2014. This research consider CSRD as endogenous variable that is predicted to have mediation role on the relation of CONSV and COD. Result of endogeneity test showed CONSV and audit committee mechanism (ACM) are instrument variables for CSRD. Furthermore we use ordinary least square (OLS) to examine link 1 and 2, and two stages least square (TSLS) for link 3. The result show that: 1) CONSV have no significant effect on COD directly, 2) CONSV have no significant effect on CSRD, while ACM have positive effect on CSRD, 3) CSRD have significant mediation role, where endogeneity variable CSRFITT have negative effect on COD. Result of examination led to conclusion that banks gave value to CSR disclosure in their lending decision. CSR disclosure is perceived to give additional information for bank in assessing borrowers’ risk, when there are no adequate conservatism level. CSRD could be perceived as representation of good management and good governance of the firm that can give assurance in bank lending decision.

Keywords: Audit committee mechanism, Borrowers’ risk, Conditional conservatism, CSR disclosure, Cost of debt, Estimation risk

Suggested Citation:

Anis, Idrianita and Utama, Sidharta, The Effect of Conditional Conservatism on Cost of Debt and Mediation Role of CSR Disclosure: Empirical Evidences from IDX (September 30, 2016). OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, Vol. 09, No. 09, pp. 19-34, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2879697
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
V R Aguilera , D E Rupp , C A Williams , J Ganapathi
Putting the S Back in Corporate Social Responsibility: A Multilevel Theory of Social Change in Organizations
Academy of Management Review , volume 32 , issue 3 , p. 836 - 863 Posted: 2007
Crossref
H Aguinis , A Glavas
What We Know and Don't Know About Corporate Social Responsibility A Review and Research Agenda
Journal of Management , volume 38 , issue 4 Posted: 2012-07
Crossref
A S Ahmed , R M Morton , T F Schaefer
Accounting conservatism and the valuation of accounting numbers: Evidence on the Feltham-Ohlson (1996) model
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance , volume 15 , p. 271 - 292 Posted: 2000
Crossref
Abdillah , H , I
The Effect of Institutional Ownership and Voluntary Disclosure Against the Cost Of Debt (Empirical Study In The Manufacturing Companies Listed on Indonesia Stock Exchange Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
569
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,244
RANK
110,496
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies