Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Diffusion of Accounting Practices in the New 'Managerial' Public Sector

Audrey Jackson, Irvine Lapsley, (2003) "The diffusion of accounting practices in the new “managerial” public sector", International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 16 Iss: 5, pp.359 - 372

Posted: 5 Dec 2016

Audrey Paterson

University of Aberdeen

Irvine Lapsley

IPSAR, University of Edinburgh Business School

Date Written: 2003

Abstract

In the past two decades the public sector has experienced a transformation. A major feature of this change has been the displacement of the old style public administration by a “new public management” which focuses on results and measurement and in which accounting has a central role. This study reports on a survey of accountants in the public sector to determine the extent to which the changing public sector is accompanied by changes in accounting practices and to explore the process by which such changes are effected.

Keywords: Public sector accounting, Diffusion, Accounting policy, United Kingdom

Suggested Citation:

Paterson, Audrey and Lapsley, Irvine, The Diffusion of Accounting Practices in the New 'Managerial' Public Sector (2003). Audrey Jackson, Irvine Lapsley, (2003) "The diffusion of accounting practices in the new “managerial” public sector", International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 16 Iss: 5, pp.359 - 372, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880101
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies