Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improving Government Accounting Practices

Posted: 7 Dec 2016

Rajat Deb

Tripura University

Date Written: December 5, 2016

Abstract

The study examines the perception about Government Accounting of the Accountants working in different State Government Departments, PSUs and in Centrally sponsored schemes in Tripura. Different statistical tests like Mann-Whitney U test, Pearson’s Chi-square test, factor analysis like Principal Component Analysis, Regression analysis were performed to assess support for the hypotheses. The result of the study suggests that in spite of having many unique features, the Government Accounting suffers from a number of limitations which need to be addressed for better disclosure and reporting. The adoption of Accrual basis of Accounting with structural changes in the Consolidated Fund; the change in the system of recording transactions using tier and digits are the need of the hour.

Keywords: Government Accounting, CAG, FRegression Analysis

JEL Classification: C83

Suggested Citation:

Deb, Rajat, Improving Government Accounting Practices (December 5, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2880730
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
718
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Public Service Delivery eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies