Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Pressure to Manage Ratios and Willingness to Do So: Evidence from Nonprofit Managers

NVSQ - Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming

34 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2016

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Charlotte Pryor

University of Southern Maine

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: December 13, 2016

Abstract

We survey 200 nonprofit executives to investigate the pressure they experience to manage so-called efficiency ratios, and their reactions to that pressure. Specifically, we investigate whether managers’ perceptions of donor pressure are influenced by 1) the degree to which they rely on contributions and government grants, 2) the existence of restricted gifts, 3) oversight by monitoring institutions that may affect donor giving decisions, and 4) the sophistication of management. We then examine factors that affect the likelihood that managers will engage in ratio management. Interestingly, we find no evidence that nonprofits that rely more heavily on donor support feel greater donor pressure. Instead, we provide evidence that specific donors, such as those who make restricted gifts and government grantors, influence perceptions of pressure. Further, more sophisticated managers perceive less pressure to manage ratios. When facing pressure to manage ratios, monitors and sophisticated managers reduce the likelihood of ratio management.

Keywords: nonprofit, ratio management, earnings management, efficiency, sophistication

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Linda M. and Pryor, Charlotte and Alston Roberts, Andrea, Pressure to Manage Ratios and Willingness to Do So: Evidence from Nonprofit Managers (December 13, 2016). NVSQ - Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2885036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
Crossref
R Bhattacharya , D Tinkelman
How tough are Better Business Bureau/Wise Giving Alliance standards? Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 2009
Crossref
M A Desai , R J Yetman
Constraining managers without owners: Governance of the not-forprofit enterprise. Working paper
National Bureau of Economic Research Posted: 2005
Crossref
M Di Mento
Affluent Donors Prefer Restricted Gifts. The Chronicle of Philanthropy Posted: 2012
Load more
1 Citations
Michael P Carniol , Kyungha (Kari) Lee
Program Ratio Bias
52 Pages · Posted: 8 Apr 2022 · Last revised: 15 Jun 2022 · Downloads: 124
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,134
RANK
560,422
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies