Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evidence About the Value of Public Sector Audit to Stakeholders

31 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: November 2016

Abstract

We examine evidence about the value of public sector auditing to stakeholders in New Zealand. We apply models of auditing from previous research in mainstream auditing literature to identify gaps in the existing understanding of public sector audit. We obtained evidence by conducting interviews and focus groups with experts employed by the Office of the Auditor-General. We examined documents including audit reports, reports to Parliament, management letters and other documents. We observed Parliamentary Select Committees, examined news media reports about public sector auditing and reviewed social media. Of the explanations that we derived from the existing literature, there is evidence about auditing’s function in agency and management control; there is limited evidence about signaling and insurance; mixed evidence about governance; and no evidence about the confirmation hypothesis, although it is potentially valuable. We conclude that public audit is valuable to stakeholders in many ways. We also make recommendations about potential changes, and we suggest concerns about certain issues.

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Hay, David, Evidence About the Value of Public Sector Audit to Stakeholders (November 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895806 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895806
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,939
RANK
344,239
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies