Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Value of Public Sector Audit: Literature and History

39 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2017

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Date Written: November 2016

Abstract

This paper explores the value of financial statement auditing in the public sector. The study applies theory about auditing from the private sector as well as the public sector to explore ways in which public auditing sector can be expected to be valuable. It finds that there are a number of complementary explanations for the value of public audit, including agency, signaling, insurance, management control, confirmation and governance explanations. The evidence from research and history is generally consistent with the agency and management control explanations. There is some support for the signaling and insurance explanations, while research evidence suggests that governance has differing impact in the public sector compared to the private. The confirmation hypothesis and governance explanations are also potentially relevant. Auditing in the public sector is an area where more research is valuable. The paper concludes with issues for further investigation.

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Cordery, Carolyn J., The Value of Public Sector Audit: Literature and History (November 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2895809 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2895809
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
464
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,408
RANK
141,968
6 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

History of Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies