Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Disrupting the Discourse of P3 Value

18 Pages Posted: 19 Jan 2017

Brent White

Mount Allison University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: January 17, 2017

Abstract

This paper examines how a legislative auditor inserted the audit function into the accountability framework governing Public Private Partnerships (PPP, 3P) in the education sector in a small Canadian province. By examining two separate case studies of public private partnerships separated by 13 years, this research offers a rare chance to track the evolution of both the Auditor General’s audit practices and of the management accounting techniques employed inside the government. The findings of the Auditor General in both instances challenged the credibility government’s VFM assertions, thereby disrupting the government’s ongoing discourse of the value of public private partnerships to the public purse. In doing so, the Auditor General cast serious doubt on the government’s notion that P3s are value-creating.

Suggested Citation:

White, Brent, Disrupting the Discourse of P3 Value (January 17, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2901168 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2901168
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
39
ABSTRACT VIEWS
996
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies