Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Geographic Distance and Municipal Internal Control Reporting

Advances in Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Jan 2017

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: 2017

Abstract

Prior research has investigated various factors affecting auditor performance when examining the internal control system of an entity. However, one factor that remains relatively unexplored is the geographic distance between auditors and their municipal clients. This study explores whether geographic distance, measured as the driving distance between U.S. municipalities and their external auditors, plays a role in the likelihood and severity of internal control weaknesses identified during Circular A-133 audits. We find evidence of a positive association between the disclosure of internal control exceptions and driving distance, suggesting that audit rigor is greater for geographically distant clients. Overall, our findings contribute to our understanding of the factors affecting auditor independence and performance in the municipal audit market.

Keywords: Auditor Independence, Auditor Performance, Circular A-133 Audits, Federal Programs, Geographic Distance, Internal Controls, Municipal Audits

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Dennis M. and Rich, Kevin T., Geographic Distance and Municipal Internal Control Reporting (2017). Advances in Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906496
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,144
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies