Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Compliance Audits of U.S. Federal Programs in the Municipalities of the Commonweath of Puerto Rico (Auditorías De Cumplimiento En Los Programas De Fondos Federales De Los Municipios De Puerto Rico)

Revista Forum Empresarial, Vol. 16(2), p. 1-17, 2011

Posted: 1 Feb 2017

Dennis M. Lopez

University of Texas at San Antonio

Date Written: 2011

Abstract

English Abstract: The municipalities of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico are eligible to receive funds from the federal government of the United States. This study presents a descriptive discussion of the federal funding received by these municipalities during fiscal years 2005 to 2009. The findings of the audits performed in connection with these funds are also discussed. The results indicate that the municipalities in the sample received an average of $8.2 million a year in federal funding. The municipality of San Juan, the capital city of Puerto Rico, received an average of $126.5 million a year and was largest recipient of federal funds during the sample period. The results also indicate that 72.99 percent of the audits disclosed reportable conditions and 31.02 percent disclosed material weaknesses. In addition, auditors issued a qualified opinion report on 33.69 percent of the conducted audits. Lastly, 53.15 percent of all audited funds are associated with programs that disclosed audit findings.

Spanish Abstract: Los municipios del Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico son elegibles para recibir fondos del gobierno federal de los Estados Unidos. Este estudio presenta una discusión descriptiva de los fondos federales recibidos por estos municipios durante los años fiscales 2005 al 2009. También se discuten los hallazgos de las auditorías realizadas en conexión a estos fondos. Los resultados revelan que los municipios en la muestra recibieron un promedio de $8.2 millones al año en fondos federales. El municipio de la ciudad capital de San Juan recibió un promedio de $126.5 millones, convirtiéndolo en el mayor beneficiario de estos fondos durante el periodo de estudio. Los resultados también indican que 72.99 por ciento de las auditorías reveló deficiencias reportables y 31.02 por ciento de estas reveló deficiencias significativas. Además, los auditores independientes emitieron opiniones con salvedades para un 33.69 por ciento de las auditorías realizadas. Finalmente, 53.15 por ciento del total de los fondos auditados proviene de programas con hallazgos de auditoría.

Keywords: Governmental Audits, Circular A-133, Federal Funding, Audit Findings

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M42, M48, M49

Suggested Citation:

Lopez, Dennis M., Compliance Audits of U.S. Federal Programs in the Municipalities of the Commonweath of Puerto Rico (Auditorías De Cumplimiento En Los Programas De Fondos Federales De Los Municipios De Puerto Rico) (2011). Revista Forum Empresarial, Vol. 16(2), p. 1-17, 2011, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2906494
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,263
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies