Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Small Charities in New Zealand: Responses to the New Financial Reporting Changes

30 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2017

Rachel F. Baskerville

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - School of Accounting and Commercial Law

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Josh Pells

Victoria University of Wellington - Te Herenga Waka - Victoria Business School

Date Written: April 24, 2017

Abstract

The introduction of a new financial reporting regime for registered charities as a result of the Financial Reporting Act 2013 (and amendments to the Charities Act 2005) has resulted in registered charities being required to comply with new financial reporting standards for periods beginning on or after 1 April 2015. These new standards were extensively consulted on by the External Reporting Board (XRB) in conjunction with Charities Services and sector bodies, such as ANGOA (now Hui E!). Further, extensive educational opportunities have been offered to registered charities to encourage compliance with the new regime. Indeed, in March 2017, Charities Services won the New Zealand Charity Technology Award for the ‘Best Government Agency’ for its webinars with the XRB which reached thousands of smaller charities, along with Charities Services’ regular blogs and outreach.

The purpose of this research project was to analyse the levels of awareness and capability of Tier 3 and Tier 4 Charities to comply with the new financial reporting standards. In particular, the survey-based research gathered responses from registered charities with less than NZ$2,000,000 in annual expenditure, which had a balance date of 31st March 2017 and thus were making their first mandatory filings under the new requirements. Charities Services has observed variable compliance with the new requirements, therefore a range of responses was expected.

As noted in this report we received 1594 analysable responses, and an overwhelming majority (92 percent) of respondents self-reported that they had used the new standards in their filing with Charities Services. Only 2% of respondents did not know what the standards were. Indeed, some respondents knew about the standards, but believed they were too hard to comply with or did not believe that they pertained to their charity in this year. There was a slight bias towards higher compliance by urban-based charities over those in rural areas, but no differences between charities based on the time the respondent had been in a position of authority.

In transitioning to the new standards, respondents overwhelmingly found the XRB website (with standards and templates) useful, and also find Charities Services website very useful. Other Charities Services education efforts were also seen as at least slightly useful. Charities were most likely to use a qualified person on a voluntary (rather than paid) basis. The findings are limited by the survey respondents who may have been more likely to be those charities that have attended to information about the new standards.

Suggested Citation:

Baskerville, Rachel F. and Cordery, Carolyn J. and Pells, Josh, Small Charities in New Zealand: Responses to the New Financial Reporting Changes (April 24, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2920808 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2920808
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,453
RANK
403,275
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies