Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identical Program Ratios: A Red Flag of Ratio Management

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

58 Pages Posted: 10 Mar 2017 Last revised: 23 Dec 2023

Qianhua Ling

Marquette University

Andrea Alston Roberts

University of Virginia - McIntire School of Commerce

Date Written: March 8, 2017

Abstract

This paper identifies a helpful red flag stakeholders can use to detect whether a nonprofit has potentially managed its financial information. This red flag is reporting an identical program ratio – that is, the NPO reports the exact same ratio in multiple years – while reporting a large change in total spending. We find nonprofits are more likely to report identical program ratios when: resource providers rely on ratios; pay is determined, at least in part, by performance; and the potential for regulatory interference is high. This paper also identifies the cost allocation techniques and the specific expenses NPOs likely manage. We find most nonprofits alter the allocations of multiple expenses and find the specific expenses most likely manipulated are ones where managers have a high degree of discretion over how much to allocate to programs. .

Keywords: nonprofit, reporting quality, ratio management, earnings management

JEL Classification: L30, M41

Suggested Citation:

Ling, Qianhua and Alston Roberts, Andrea, Identical Program Ratios: A Red Flag of Ratio Management (March 8, 2017). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2929649 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2929649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
113
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,046
RANK
564,240
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies