Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting and Economic Biases in Donations to NGO's is Scaling the New Overhead Myth in Charity Giving?

14 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2017 Last revised: 31 May 2017

John W. Byrd

University of Colorado at Denver; University of Colorado at Denver

Jane Cote

Washington State University, Vancouver

Date Written: March 16, 2017

Abstract

We examine how two trends in choosing which NGOs or not-for-profit organizations to support create biases in the types of organizations that are supported and how that bias in giving may affect the impact of international development organizations, especially those whose mission is sustainable development. The two trends that we examine are: 1) basing funding decisions on an organization’s overhead-to-program expenses; and 2) basing funding on the ability of the organization to quickly scale up their activities. Efficiency is appealing because donors want their contributions to be invested well. Scaling is attractive because the need in the developing world is huge and scaling allows more of that need to be met. While scale is a very appropriate metric for certain types of activities, as a sole funding decision criterion it has serious flaws. We argue that these biases result in suboptimal development activities and that donors need to develop a much more complex and nuanced approach to giving, based on outcomes determined by the clients being served.

Keywords: NGOs, Not-for-Profit Organizations, Funding Decisions, Accounting Biases

JEL Classification: L30, L39

Suggested Citation:

Byrd, John W. and Cote, Jane, Accounting and Economic Biases in Donations to NGO's is Scaling the New Overhead Myth in Charity Giving? (March 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2934719 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2934719
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
147
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,173
RANK
456,685
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies