Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Volunteers in Public Benefit Organizations in Poland and the UK - Do the Organizations' Financial Results Depend on the Number of Volunteers?

BEH - Business and Economic Horizons, Volume 11, Issue 4, pp. 209-223, 2015

Posted: 30 Mar 2017

Halina Waniak-Michalak

University of Lodz, Management Department

Date Written: 2015

Abstract

Many private institutions serving public purposes use volunteer work that they must disclose in their reports. In this paper, 315 public benefit organizations in Poland (PBOs) and 315 charities in the UK are analyzed using statistical methods. Differences in the level of disclosure and the degree to which PBOs’ financial results depend on the number of volunteers are also described. The conclusion the research has offered is that UK PBOs operate on a wider scale and use volunteer work more frequently and that the Polish. Moreover, UK PBOs are not significantly different than Polish regarding the relationship between their financial results and the number of volunteers supporting their activities.

Keywords: Volunteers, PBOs, Financial Results

JEL Classification: L31

Suggested Citation:

Waniak-Michalak, Halina, Volunteers in Public Benefit Organizations in Poland and the UK - Do the Organizations' Financial Results Depend on the Number of Volunteers? (2015). BEH - Business and Economic Horizons, Volume 11, Issue 4, pp. 209-223, 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2942381
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
978
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Public Goods eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Labor & Social Conditions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies