Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Audit-Related Factors Associated with Financial Reporting Quality in Nonprofit Organizations?

Garven, Sarah A., Amanda W. Beck, and Linda M. Parsons. "Are audit-related factors associated with financial reporting quality in nonprofit organizations?." Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 37, no. 1 (2018): 49-68.

Posted: 10 Apr 2017 Last revised: 6 Aug 2021

Sarah Garven

Middle Tennessee State University

Amanda Beck

Georgia State University

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Date Written: April 6, 2017

Abstract

We examine the effects of several audit-related factors on nonprofit financial reporting quality (FRQ). Using four different measures of FRQ, we demonstrate that the findings of nonprofit accounting research might be sensitive to the choice of FRQ proxy. Nonetheless, we consistently find that specialist auditors and unexplained audit fees have a significant positive effect on FRQ in nonprofit organizations. Interestingly, we observe changes to FRQ in the period after the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, despite the fact the legislation does not apply to nonprofit audits. In fact, the results suggest nonprofits selected less obvious methods of ratio management post-SOX, compared to pre-SOX. Finally, we do not find that Big N auditors consistently provide the highest quality, a result very different from for-profit studies.

Keywords: program ratio management, nonprofit organizations, financial reporting quality, audit quality, A-133 audits, Sarbanes-Oxley Act

Suggested Citation:

Garven, Sarah and Beck, Amanda and Parsons, Linda M., Are Audit-Related Factors Associated with Financial Reporting Quality in Nonprofit Organizations? (April 6, 2017). Garven, Sarah A., Amanda W. Beck, and Linda M. Parsons. "Are audit-related factors associated with financial reporting quality in nonprofit organizations?." Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 37, no. 1 (2018): 49-68., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2948164 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2948164
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,211
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies