Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Bankrupt UK Cities: PD Model for Credit Risk in Sub-Sovereign Sector

Prorokowski, L. (2016), “BANKRUPT UK CITIES: PD MODEL FOR CREDIT RISK IN SUB-SOVEREIGN SECTOR”, Bank & Credit, Vol. 47 Iss. 6, pp. 495-528.

Posted: 27 Apr 2017

Lukasz Prorokowski

Masaryk University - Faculty of Economics and Administration; Emerald Group Publishing Ltd; (AQMeN) Applied Quantitative Methods Network

Date Written: July 26, 2016

Abstract

We develop a PD model (PD – probability of default) for sub-sovereign entities, namely UK municipalities. Our methodology serves as an alternative for banks that use the standardised approach or scorecard-based models for assessing the probability of default for municipalities, local authorities and other sub-sovereign entities.

Focusing on credit exposures to municipalities, we address the concerns that sub-sovereign and sovereign entities are nowadays more risky than large corporate or bank entities. Furthermore, discussing the current and forthcoming regulatory frameworks for credit risk models, we point to the existence of contradictory regulations and argue that dispensing with the conservative approach may lead to a build-up of credit risk that cannot be accurately captured. With this in mind, we argue that PD models should remain conservative so that banks can accumulate sufficient capital to cover the crisis-induced default exposures.

Keywords: credit risk, probability of default (PD model), local authorities, capital requirements regulation (CRR), IFRS 9

JEL Classification: R5, H7, G21, G28

Suggested Citation:

Prorokowski, Lukasz, Bankrupt UK Cities: PD Model for Credit Risk in Sub-Sovereign Sector (July 26, 2016). Prorokowski, L. (2016), “BANKRUPT UK CITIES: PD MODEL FOR CREDIT RISK IN SUB-SOVEREIGN SECTOR”, Bank & Credit, Vol. 47 Iss. 6, pp. 495-528., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2958683
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
807
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies