Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use of Information in Performance Management: Experiences from Polish Universities

30 Pages Posted: 2 May 2017

Dorota Dobija

Kozminski University

Anna Górska

Kozminski University

Wojciech Strzelczyk

Kozminski University

Date Written: April 30, 2017

Abstract

This paper seeks to extend the understating of how performance information (PI) is used in the university context and is intended to contribute to the current debate on the use of PI in the context of faculty performance management (PM).

Empirical data was gathered through two in-depth case studies. This approach allows a multi-level analysis based on neo-institutional theory and legitimacy theories. The results of this study are also compared with the literature on PI use.

PM practices at universities have become increasingly popular on an institutional, group, and individual basis. The results indicate that PI is used in universities; however, the extent and the scope of PI use by various actors can differ at various levels. How PI is used seems to be motivated by the influences coming to the national and international accrediting and rating agencies. In general, universities use PI to legitimize themselves externally as research-oriented institutions, and their practices are gradually becoming isomorphic. However, analysis at the internal level reveals different attitudes and approaches related to the use of PI. We found evidence of decoupling from the existing performance regulation in the case of more traditional university. In the case of more entrepreneurial universities, mimetic isomorphic practices are more evident.

This paper focuses on two case studies, which are still undergoing change. Analysis could be reinforced by studying more cases, the use of different data collection methods, and cross-country and between-country comparative analysis.

The use of PI is discussed in the specific context of the higher education system in Poland. Also, the cases of two business schools facilitate the analysis of the differences in how PI is used in the context of traditional and entrepreneurial universities.

Keywords: Performance Management Systems, Performance Information, Research, Universities, Institutional Theory, Isomorphism, Poland

JEL Classification: M4, M40, M49

Suggested Citation:

Dobija, Dorota and Górska, Anna and Strzelczyk, Wojciech, The Use of Information in Performance Management: Experiences from Polish Universities (April 30, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2960903 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2960903
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
C Adams , C Larrinaga-González
Engaging with organisations in pursuit of improved sustainability accounting and performance
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 355 Posted: 2007
Crossref
N J Adler , A W Harzing
When knowledge wins: transcending the sense and nonsense ofacademic rankings
Academy of Management Learning and Education , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2008
Crossref
G Agyemang , J Broadbent
Management control systems and research management in universities
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 29 , issue 7 , p. 1018 - 1046 Posted: 2015
Crossref
T Ahrens , Ch S Chapman
Doing qualitative Weld research in management accounting: Positioning data to contribute to theory
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 31 , p. 819 - 841 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,418
RANK
765,896
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Public Service Delivery eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies