Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Reforms and Balanced Scorecard Adoption: An Ethiopian Case Study

Bobe, B.J., Mihret, D.G., Obo, D.D., Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Forthcoming)

Posted: 5 Jun 2017

Belete (BJ) Bobe

Deakin University

Dessalegn Getie Mihret

Deakin University

Degefe Duressa Obo

Independent

Date Written: May 25, 2017

Abstract

This study examines adoption of the balanced scorecard (BSC) by a large public sector health organisation in an African country, Ethiopia, as part of a programme to implement a unified sector-wide strategic planning and performance monitoring system. The study explains how this trans-organisational role of the BSC is constituted, and explores how it operates in practice at the sector and organisation levels.

The study employs the case study method. It analyses semi-structured interview data and documentary evidence by drawing on the concept of translation from actor–network theory.

The case study organisation adopted the BSC as part of broader public sector reforms driven by political ideology. Through a centralised government decision, the BSC was framed as a sector-wide system aimed at: a) aligning the health sector’s strategic policy goals with the strategic priorities and operational objectives of organisations in the sector, and b) unifying performance monitoring of the sector’s organisations by enabling aggregation of performance information to a sector level in a timely manner to facilitate health sector policy implementation. While the political ideology facilitated BSC adoption for trans-organisational use, it provided little organisational discretion to integrate financial administration and human resource management practices to the BSC framework. Further, inadequate piloting of information system use for the anticipated BSC model—originating from the top-down approach followed in the BSC implementation—inhibited implementation of the BSC with a balanced emphasis between the planning and performance monitoring roles of the BSC. As a result, the BSC underwent a pragmatic shift in emphasis and was reconceptualised as a system of enhancing strategic alignment through integrated planning, compared to the balanced emphasis between the planning and performance monitoring roles initially anticipated.

The study provides a theory-based explanation of how politico-ideological contexts might facilitate the framing of novel roles for the BSC and how the roles translate into practice.

Suggested Citation:

Bobe, Belete Jember and Mihret, Dessalegn Getie and Duressa Obo, Degefe, Public Sector Reforms and Balanced Scorecard Adoption: An Ethiopian Case Study (May 25, 2017). Bobe, B.J., Mihret, D.G., Obo, D.D., Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Forthcoming) , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2973737
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,115
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies