Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Linguistic Tone of Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures and Future Internal Control Quality

Journal of Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 9 Jun 2017 Last revised: 22 Nov 2018

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Brent Roberts

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), School of Business, Department of Accounting

Jean X. Zhang

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU)

Date Written: November 1, 2018

Abstract

We investigate relations between the textual content of municipal disclosures and future internal control quality. Specifically, we examine whether the linguistic tone of municipal management discussion and analysis (MD&A) disclosures is associated with the likelihood of future internal control weaknesses. Using a sample of 362 municipal MD&A disclosures in fiscal year-end 2011, our empirical analysis suggests that positive (negative) tone in municipal MD&A disclosures is associated with fewer (more) subsequent year internal control weaknesses after controlling for other governance, demographic, and performance factors. Overall, our findings suggest that language in municipal MD&A disclosures plays an important role in signaling confidence in financial reporting systems, indicating that MD&A content contains important information in predicting the quality of future municipal financial reporting.

Keywords: linguistic tone, internal control quality, municipal MD&A

JEL Classification: H83

Suggested Citation:

Rich, Kevin T. and Roberts, Brent and Zhang, Jean X., Linguistic Tone of Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures and Future Internal Control Quality (November 1, 2018). Journal of Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2975852 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2975852
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
K D Allee , M D Deangelis
The structure of voluntary disclosure narratives: evidence from tone dispersion
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 53 , p. 241 - 274 Posted: 2015
Crossref
W R Baber
Toward understanding the role of auditing in the public sector
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , p. 213 - 227 Posted: 1983
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
An empirical investigation of accounting restatements and governance in the municipal context
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
S Balsam , J Boone , H Liu , J Yin
The impact of say-on-pay on executive compensation
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 35 , issue 2 , p. 162 - 191 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Kevin T. Rich , Brent Roberts , Joseph Wall , Jean X. Zhang
Toward an Understanding of Year-over-Year Changes in Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures
39 Pages · Posted: 27 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 107
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
235
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,865
RANK
297,327
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies