Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Equipping Public Servants with Accrual Accounting for Transparency, Accountability and Efficiency – Evidence from Nigeria and Ghana

Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 1-10

10 Pages Posted: 17 Jul 2017 Last revised: 20 Jul 2017

Shakirat Babatunde

University of Lagos

Opoku Fofie

Independent

Date Written: December 1, 2016

Abstract

Objective - This study is based on the social welfare viewpoint of accounting. It examines the benefits of accrual accounting as a replacement for cash accounting as a measure to enhance public service transparency, accountability, and efficiency in the public sectors of Nigeria and Ghana.

Methodology/Technique - This study is based on a sample of 375 respondents from the accounting, auditing and budgeting cadres and legislatives of the public sector in Nigeria. In the Ghana perspective, 25 high-ranking public servants in the accounting, auditing and budgeting cadres were interviewed for the study. Three hundred and twenty-six valid responses representing 87% of the samples in Nigeria and the Ghana context were retrieved for analysed via descriptive statistics.

Findings - Findings indicate that there is a significant association between accrual accounting and transparency, accountability, and efficiency in the public sectors of Nigeria and Ghana.

Novelty - This study has the potential for improving financial reporting in the public sector. It is useful to researchers and academics because its focus on societal accounting is of current interest to accounting professionals and researchers.

Type of Paper - Empirical.

Keywords: Accountability; Accrual accounting; Public servants; Efficiency; Transparency

JEL Classification: H83, M41

Suggested Citation:

Babatunde, Shakirat and Fofie, Opoku, Equipping Public Servants with Accrual Accounting for Transparency, Accountability and Efficiency – Evidence from Nigeria and Ghana (December 1, 2016). Accounting and Finance Review (AFR), Vol.1(1) 2016. 1-10, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3000199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
101
ABSTRACT VIEWS
885
RANK
614,410
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies