Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Moderating Role of Reporting Quality

28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting

47 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2018 Last revised: 20 Sep 2023

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Svenja Dube

City University of NY, Baruch College, Zicklin School of Business

Date Written: November 20, 2019

Abstract

This paper examines whether credit rating agencies' sensitivity to external signals about the local economy varies with the quality of local governments' financial reports. We find the credit ratings of governments that are required to comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) are less sensitive to changes in local home values than similarly-affected governments that are not required to comply with GAAP. To attribute these results to reporting quality, we confirm in a difference-in-difference-in-differences analysis that GAAP's moderating role increased after the adoption of GASB 34, which substantially improved the quality of GAAP-compliant issuers' financial reports. To understand the mechanism, we study positive and negative economic signals separately. The results are pronounced when the change in home values is negative, consistent with reporting quality decreasing the rating agency's uncertainty about issuers' pre-existing likelihood of default. We conclude that credit rating agencies are less sensitive to local economic signals when the government's financial reports are of higher quality.

Keywords: Reporting quality, transparency, cost of debt, credit ratings, municipal debt

JEL Classification: D80, G24, H74

Suggested Citation:

Cuny, Christine and Dube, Svenja, The Moderating Role of Reporting Quality (November 20, 2019). 28th Annual Conference on Financial Economics and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3002674 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3002674
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
W Baber , A Beck , A Koester
Separation in the Municipal Debt Market Following GASB , volume 34 Posted: 2023
W R Baber , A K Gore
Consequences of GAAP Reporting Requirements: Evidence from Municipal Debt Issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , p. 565 - 592 Posted: 2008
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting Restatements, Governance and Municipal Debt Financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
K Balakrishnan , M B Billings , B Kelly , A Ljungqvist
Shaping Liquidity: On the Causal Effects of Voluntary Disclosure
The Journal of Finance , volume 69 , p. 2237 - 2278 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
419
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,216
RANK
159,889
1 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies