Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Due Process and Fiscal Responsibility Act As Tools for Effective Fund Management in Nigeria

2014 Conference Proceedings, Faculty of Management Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka.

25 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Uche Egolum

Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka

Janefrances Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Students

Date Written: October 13, 2014

Abstract

The study assessed due process and fiscal responsibility acts so as to determine whether they will be effective in fund management. Some government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) were selected as sample for the study. The study made use of primary and secondary data in eliciting the required information needed for this research. An instrument was designed using the 5-point Likert scale ranging from strongly agree (5) to strongly disagree (1). The instrument has 16 items. A total of 192 samples were drawn from the target population using the simple random sampling technique. Out of which the 192 questionnaire administered, 157 were returned upon which the analysis was based. This represents 82% response rate. Data analysis was carried with the aid of SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences). Findings showed that due process and fiscal policies have helped to create new orientation in the conduct of government business when compared with the past procurement system. Based on the finding, the researchers recommended that, for due process and fiscal policies to achieve their lofty goals for the country, the government should exercise sincere political will and sincerity of purpose to implement the provisions of the public procurement Act 2007 and Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007, to the letter.

Keywords: Due Process, Fiscal Responsibility Act, Fund Management

JEL Classification: L25, M41, M51

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Egolum, Uche and Okoye, Janefrances, Due Process and Fiscal Responsibility Act As Tools for Effective Fund Management in Nigeria (October 13, 2014). 2014 Conference Proceedings, Faculty of Management Sciences, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,033
RANK
496,121
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: General Equilibrium & Disequilibrium Models of Financial Markets eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies