Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Results-Based Reporting within Social Enterprises: Motives and Benefits

37 Pages Posted: 31 Jul 2017

Lena Wörrlein

University of Hamburg

Date Written: July 27, 2016

Abstract

Purpose: Social Enterprises (SEs), in contrast to for-profit organizations, intend to solve societal problems while engaging in business to sustain their activities. Traditional accounting literature clarifies motives of reporting for for-profit organizations but little is known about the reasons for SEs for applying results-based reporting and the benefits it creates.

Methodology: Based upon case studies with four SEs, which have successively implemented the first standardized results-based reporting guideline – the Social Reporting Standard (SRS) – analytical induction is applied to develop theory.

Findings: A conceptual framework on motives and perceived benefits of results-based reporting, and in particular the SRS for SEs, is developed. Surprisingly, only two SEs recognized a benefit for their internal management and, interestingly, despite the differences of enterprises and SEs, all motives for reporting can be transferred to SEs.

Research limitations: The restriction to four SEs is due to the SRS’ short application duration and this study’s attempt to capture internal learnings processes.

Practical implications: SRS provides transparency externally and some potential of triggering learning within the organization, which can facilitate efficient capital allocation and improve effectiveness of SEs and the social sector.

Originality/value: Surprisingly, results-based reporting and particularly the SRS is used by SEs predominantly as a symbolic tool for signaling professionalism for legitimization purposes. This is in line with legitimacy and signaling theory. SEs are considered as hybrid organizations but seem to orient themselves strongly on the for-profit sector regarding their reporting endeavors.

Keywords: Social Enterprise, Results-Based Reporting

JEL Classification: M

Suggested Citation:

Wörrlein, Lena, Results-Based Reporting within Social Enterprises: Motives and Benefits (July 27, 2016). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008784 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3008784
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,124
RANK
514,796
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Socially Responsible Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies