Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) on Federal Government Recurrent Expenditure in Nigeria

Proceedings of NAA National Conference, Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State, 2016

29 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2017 Last revised: 10 Sep 2017

Nestor Amahalu

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Pius Vincent Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Janefrances Okoye

Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, Students

Date Written: August 15, 2016

Abstract

This study examined the effect of Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) on Federal Government recurrent expenditure in Nigeria. The study made use of secondary source of data obtained from Budget Office of the Federation (BOF), Annual Report from the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) together with the audited financial statements and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Statistical Bulletin. The relevant data were subjected to statistical analysis using the t-test statistics. The results of the study revealed that there is a significant difference in Government’s recurrent expenditure following the introduction of IPPIS in 2007. It was also empirically verified that the percentage of fund savings to the budgeted expenditure shows that the implementation of IPPIS has resulted in fund savings for the Federal Government of Nigeria. The researchers recommend that the training of the operators of the IPPIS should be technologically compliant. Periodic monitoring or verification exercise of the Ministry, Department and Agencies (MDAs) should be adopted by the Office of Accountant General of the Federation to verify the civil servants that have left the service.

Keywords: Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System, Recurrent Expenditure, Personnel Cost

JEL Classification: L21, M17, M19

Suggested Citation:

Amahalu, Nestor and Okoye, Pius Vincent and Okoye, Janefrances, Effect of Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS) on Federal Government Recurrent Expenditure in Nigeria (August 15, 2016). Proceedings of NAA National Conference, Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3008572
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
656
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,804
RANK
92,044
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies