Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Application of ICT in Public Sector Accounting of Bangladesh

Dhaka University Journal of Business Studies, Special International Edition, 1(1), 1-16

16 Pages Posted: 4 Aug 2017

Md Salah Uddin Rajib

Jahangirnagar University

Mahfuzul Hoque

University of Dhaka

Date Written: June 1, 2017

Abstract

This paper investigates the application of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the Public Sector Accounting (PSA) of a developing country, Bangladesh. Transparency and efficiency of PSA has been urged by different stakeholders for a long time. Therefore, reformation of PSA in the developing countries has been suggested by the donor agencies. As a part of reforming the PSA, Bangladesh has introduced and applied the Integrated Budget and Accounting Systems (iBAS), a computer based network introduced with support of the association of the donor agencies. This study adopted document analysis and focus group interview to understand the application of ICT in the PSA of Bangladesh. Through the investigation of PSA practice and document analysis, this paper tries to explore the application of ICT in the public sector accounting of Bangladesh. The findings of the study show that different accounting authorities of Bangladesh government seem to have benefited from ICT based PSA.

Keywords: Public sector accounting, ICT (Information and Communication Technology), Implementation, iBAS (Integrated Budget and Accounting Systems), Bangladesh

JEL Classification: G18, H50, H83

Suggested Citation:

Rajib, Md Salah Uddin and Hoque, Mahfuzul, Application of ICT in Public Sector Accounting of Bangladesh (June 1, 2017). Dhaka University Journal of Business Studies, Special International Edition, 1(1), 1-16, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3012940
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,583
RANK
241,875
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Sustainability & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies