Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does State Community Benefits Regulation Influence Charity Care and Operational Efficiency in U.S. Non-Profit Hospitals?

Journal of Business Ethics, August 2019, Volume 158, Issue 2

59 Pages Posted: 21 Aug 2017 Last revised: 23 May 2022

Melvin A. Lamboy-Ruiz

Georgia Southern University; Iowa State University

James N. Cannon

Iowa State University; Utah State University, School of Accountancy

Olena V. Watanabe

Iowa State University - Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business

Date Written: November 27, 2017

Abstract

Using a comprehensive sample of U.S. non-profit hospitals from 2011 to 2015, we examine the effects of state community benefits regulation (CBR) on the amount of charity care provided by and the operational efficiency of U.S. non-profit hospitals. First, we document that, under such regulations, non-profit hospitals provide more charity care and less compensated care as a proportion of net revenue. We infer from these findings that CBR has the potential to increase both non-profit hospitals’ amount of charity care and their efficiency of operations. Second, by examining variation in CBR types, we find no differences between having provision or having reporting requirements on the amount of charity care offered. Moreover, when we consider CBR with both provision and reporting requirements, the combination of these two requirements does not incrementally enhance charity care offerings, suggesting that the requirements may serve as substitutes with comparable effect. Lastly, we show that several state-level characteristics influence the relationship between CBR and charity care: CBRs in states with a higher gross domestic product and percentage of revenue received in taxes have incrementally lower associations with charity care, while hospitals in states where populations have, on average, higher household incomes have greater associations between CBR and charity care. Our findings highlight the effects that state-enacted regulation can have on socially beneficial behavior by non-profits.

Keywords: hospitals, non-profit, regulation, social benefits, charity care

JEL Classification: I18, M48, L30

Suggested Citation:

Lamboy-Ruiz, Melvin and Cannon, James N. and Cannon, James N. and Watanabe, Olena V., Does State Community Benefits Regulation Influence Charity Care and Operational Efficiency in U.S. Non-Profit Hospitals? (November 27, 2017). Journal of Business Ethics, August 2019, Volume 158, Issue 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3020373 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3020373
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S Ahluwalia , O C Ferrell , L Ferrell , T L Rittenburg
Sarbanes-Oxley Section 406 Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Firm Behavior
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2016
G Bai
How do board size and occupational background of directors influence social performance in for-profit and non-profit organizations? Evidence from California hospitals
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 118 , p. 171 - 187 Posted: 2013
G Bai , G F Anderson
A more detailed understanding of factors associated with hospital profitability
Health Affairs , volume 35 , issue 5 , p. 889 - 897 Posted: 2016
G Bai , S H Hsu , R Krishnan
Accounting performance and capacity investment decisions: Evidence from California hospitals
Decision Sciences , volume 45 , issue 2 , p. 309 - 339 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
122
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,389
RANK
531,414
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies