Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
University Budgets and Strategy: A Survey of Current Practices in Canada

36 Pages Posted: 18 Aug 2017

Bryan Boles

Brock University

Staci Kenno

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Michelle Lau

Brock University - Goodman School of Business

Barbara Sainty

Brock University - Accounting

Date Written: August 18, 2017

Abstract

There is a growing demand for policymakers to ensure that public funds are being spent wisely and effectively. In Canada, most universities are publically funded and face increased scrutiny and accountability for to show progress, budgets, and plans for the future. As a result, mission and strategy have become important in the post-secondary institution marketplace. There is a body of research that examines the relationship between budgeting and strategic planning but many questions remain, especially in the public sector. Our survey was designed to determine if there is a link between budgeting and strategic planning in universities. Administered to the Vice Presidents - Finance and Administration, our results identify a number of elements in the budgeting process that may lead to enhanced strategic planning. The results may influence choices made in how best to budget and how to relate the budgeting process to strategic planning and funding initiatives. In determining funding and assessing accountability, governments could be interested in a university’s budget model and may consider the budget model as one element to assess the ability of the institution to achieve its strategic goals.

Keywords: Budgeting, University, Survey, Strategic Planning

Suggested Citation:

Boles, Bryan and Kenno, Staci and Lau, Michelle and Sainty, Barbara, University Budgets and Strategy: A Survey of Current Practices in Canada (August 18, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3021984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3021984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
321
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,803
RANK
215,325
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies