Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of U.S. State Pensions by Total State Expenditures, State Budget Deficit, and Red v. Blue State

International Journal of Economics and Accounting, 7(1): 27-44, 2016

29 Pages Posted: 15 Sep 2017

Don H. Chamberlain

Murray State University - Accounting Department

Murphy Smith

Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi-Department of Accounting

Randall Bunker

University of Central Arkansas

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

Pensions are important to government employees. In the United States, some states fund almost 100 percent of the present value of future pension obligations; while in other states, the funding is substantially lacking. Results of this study show that states with lower state expenditures per capita, relative to states with higher expenditures, have provided better funding of their state pensions. States with lower budget deficits, relative to states with higher budget deficits, paid a significantly higher percent of annual required contributions. This suggests that states that are more fiscally conservative (lower budget deficit) do a better job of making required annual contributions to their state pensions. The red (Republican) states paid a higher proportion of required annual contributions than blue (Democrat) states, 90 versus 84 percent, respectively; but this difference was not significant. All states have an ethical responsibility to meet the pension obligations owed to their state government employees.

Keywords: pensions, state government, state pensions, government accounting

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Chamberlain, Don H. and Smith, Murphy and Bunker, Randall, An Examination of U.S. State Pensions by Total State Expenditures, State Budget Deficit, and Red v. Blue State (2016). International Journal of Economics and Accounting, 7(1): 27-44, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3036019
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
James Alm , Hugo Lopez-Castano
Payroll Taxes in Colombia
Andrew Young School of Policy Studies Research Paper Series No. 06-36 Pages: 56 Posted: 10 Apr 2006
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
B Apostolou , N G Apostolou , R C Brooks
The GA(A)P in Underfunded State Pension Liabilities
CPA Journal , volume 81 , issue 5 , p. 16 - 21 Posted: 2011-05
Dale Belman , John Heywood
Changes in the Relative Provision of Public-Sector Pensions
Public Finance Review , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 426 - 441 Posted: 1997-07
Crossref
A G Biggs
An Options Pricing Method for Calculating the Market Price of Public Sector Pension Liabilities
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 31 , issue 3 , p. 94 - 118 Posted: 2011
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies