Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Expenditure and Internally Generated Revenue Relationship: An Analysis of Local Governments in Adamawa State, Nigeria

International Refereed Research Journal, Vol. 6, Issue 3 (1), July 2015

11 Pages Posted: 22 Sep 2017

Mohammed Abba

Modibbo Adama University of Technology

Ahmed Bello

Modibbo Adama University of Technology

Salihu Modibbo Aliyu

Modibbo Adama University of Technology

Date Written: July 01, 2015

Abstract

The aim of this paper is to examine the relationship between expenditure (both Capital and recurrent) and internally generated revenue (IGR) in Adamawa State local governments. The Population of this study is the entire twenty one (21) local governments in Adamawa state. For the purpose of accuracy and reliability on the generalization of research findings the study uses the entire population as the sample size. Panel data was extracted from the Local government’s Audited Financial Statements for the period of Ten years (2003-2012). Pooled regression was used for the data analysis. The study finds a significant relationship between government expenditure and internally generated revenue. Capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure on agriculture and natural resources, roads, rural electrification, market expansion significantly influence the internally generated revenue of the Adamawa State’s local governments. The study therefore recommends that the Local government authorities in Adamawa State should use their resources with high sense of prudence, transparency and accountability in incurring capital and recurrent expenditure for the development of various sectors of their local economies so as to enhance their internally generated revenue. This will reduce dependency on statutory allocation from the federation account.

Keywords: IGR, Recurrent expenditure, Capital expenditure, Local Governments, Statutory Allocation, Federation Account, Audited Financial Statements

Suggested Citation:

Abba, Mohammed and Bello, Ahmed and Aliyu, Salihu Modibbo, Expenditure and Internally Generated Revenue Relationship: An Analysis of Local Governments in Adamawa State, Nigeria (July 01, 2015). International Refereed Research Journal, Vol. 6, Issue 3 (1), July 2015, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3040141
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
524
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,805
RANK
122,537
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies