Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Further Improvement Issues of Accounting and Reporting in Non-State Non-Profit Organizations in Uzbekistan

European Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 212-216, 2017

5 Pages Posted: 19 Oct 2017

Mehriddin Hojiev

Department of Audit, Tashkent Financial Institute

Date Written: March 1, 2017

Abstract

Among all of contemporary organizational structure of entities, non-state non-profit organizations (NSNPOs hereinafter) gains an inherent position in terms of orientation and funding. The last three decades are marked with significant shifts in NSNPO accounting and reporting reforms due to abovementioned distinguishing features depending on the country they operate. Uzbekistan has put several significant steps towards regulatory and legal bases of NSNPOs through structural reforms and legislative adjustments. This article investigates international best practices in NSNPO accounting and reporting practices, highlights adoption opportunities and proposes recommendation for further improvement of NSNPOs in Uzbekistan

Keywords: NGO, NSNPO, accounting, Uzbekistan

Suggested Citation:

Hojiev, Mehriddin, Further Improvement Issues of Accounting and Reporting in Non-State Non-Profit Organizations in Uzbekistan (March 1, 2017). European Journal of Business and Management, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 212-216, 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3055577
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
AICPA's 2013 Not-for-Profit Audit & Accounting Guide Provides Added Clarity & Guidance
BKD Posted: 2013
A Guide to Financial Statements of Not-For-Profit Organizations: Questions for Directors to Ask. Directors Briefing Series
CICA Posted: 2012
R Gray , J Bebbington , Collison , D
NGOs, Civil Society and Accountability: Making the People Accountable to Capital
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 319 - 348 Posted: 2006
Crossref
B Scheck , A Hoechstaedter , T Busch
Making Money at the Expense of the Poor? An Investigation of Individuals' Preferences to Impact Invest Versus Donate
ACRN Oxford Journal of Finance and Risk Perspectives , volume 5 , issue 2 , p. 141 - 163 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
144
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
464,622
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Applied Accounting - Practitioner eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies