Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The 'Privatization' of Municipal Debt

Journal of Public Economics, Forthcoming

84 Pages Posted: 20 Oct 2017 Last revised: 22 May 2024

Ivan Ivanov

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago

Tom Zimmermann

University of Cologne; QuantCo, Inc.

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 20, 2024

Abstract

We study the determinants of local governments’ reliance on bank loans using granular data from
the Federal Reserve. Governments that are larger, riskier, rely on historically stable revenue sources, or have higher spending relative to revenues are more likely to borrow from banks. Declines in revenues, reductions in bond market access, and relationships with financial advisers
and underwriters all strongly predict higher bank loan reliance. While resemblance between bank loans and bonds is limited, loans afford governments significant financial flexibility not otherwise available in the municipal bond market. The frequent loan renegotiation and credit line use are both highly responsive to changes in credit quality, thereby tailoring debt contracts to changes in government fundamentals. The largest entities find this flexibility most useful with nearly 45% of entities in the top revenue quintile obtaining a bank loan by 2017.

Keywords: local government borrowing, debt heterogeneity, fiscal shocks

JEL Classification: H74; G21; G32

Suggested Citation:

Ivanov, Ivan and Zimmermann, Tom and Zimmermann, Tom, The 'Privatization' of Municipal Debt (May 20, 2024). Journal of Public Economics, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3056079 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3056079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
701
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,159
RANK
66,614
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies