Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Proposal to Implement the Balanced Scorecard in a Non-Profit Organization

European Accounting and Management Review, Volume 4, Issue 1, Article 3, 49-74, November 2017

26 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2017

Patricia Rodrigues Quesado

Polytechnic Institute of Cavado and Ave

João Carlos Fernandes Branco

Polytechnic Institute of Cavado and Ave

Fernando Jorge Rodrigues

Polytechnic Institute of Cavado and Ave

Date Written: October 6, 2017

Abstract

In this paper we aim to develop a Balanced Scorecard (BSC) model for a nonprofit organization whose activity focuses on the teaching of chess. In order to answer the research question, we have carried out a qualitative research based on the case study. Our study is characterized by a descriptive analysis. The results allow us to conclude that the BSC is a tool that will allow to define the strategy in a clearer and objective way, allowing a greater awareness of the importance of an internal organization that allows to reach the defined objectives through a set of initiatives. The study presents a contribution to the current state of knowledge, since we seek to provide the organization with a management tool that allows to measure its performance and the value it adds to society and to outline a consistent and sustainable long-term strategy. In addition, a theoretical basis is provided for subsequent research, evidencing the breadth of research on the topic studied.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Management Accounting, Management Control, Non-profit Organizations

JEL Classification: M00

Suggested Citation:

Rodrigues Quesado, Patricia and Fernandes Branco, João Carlos and Rodrigues, Fernando Jorge, Proposal to Implement the Balanced Scorecard in a Non-Profit Organization (October 6, 2017). European Accounting and Management Review, Volume 4, Issue 1, Article 3, 49-74, November 2017, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3080965
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
417
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,861
RANK
160,765
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies