Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Motivating Compliance: Firm Response to Mandatory Existence Disclosure Policies

Colleen M. Boland, Chris E. Hogan, and Marilyn F. Johnson (2018) Motivating Compliance: Firm Response to Mandatory Disclosure Policies. Accounting Horizons: June 2018, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 103-119.

Posted: 15 Dec 2017 Last revised: 7 Aug 2019

Colleen M. Boland

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee - Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business

Chris E. Hogan

Michigan State University; Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Marilyn F. Johnson

Michigan State University - Department of Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: December 12, 2017

Abstract

Mandatory existence disclosure rules require an organization to disclose a policy’s existence, but not its content. We examine policy adoption frequencies in the year immediately after the IRS required mandatory existence disclosure by nonprofits of various governance policies. We also examine adoption frequencies in the year of the subsequent change from mandatory existence disclosure to a disclose-and-explain regime that required supplemental disclosures about the content and implementation of conflict of interest policies. Our results suggest that in areas where there is unclear regulatory authority, mandatory existence disclosure is an effective and low cost regulatory device for encouraging the adoption of policies desired by regulators, provided those policies are cost-effective for regulated firms to implement. In addition, we find that disclose-and-explain regulatory regimes provide stronger incentives for policy adoption than do mandatory existence disclosure regimes and also discourage “check the box” behavior. Future research should examine the impact of mandatory existence disclosure rules in the year that the regulation is implemented.

Keywords: mandatory existence disclosure regulation, governance policies, conflicts of interest, whistleblower, document retention, compensation, nonprofit organizations, regulation, auditor

Suggested Citation:

Boland, Colleen M. and Hogan, Chris E. and Hogan, Chris E. and Johnson, Marilyn F., Motivating Compliance: Firm Response to Mandatory Existence Disclosure Policies (December 12, 2017). Colleen M. Boland, Chris E. Hogan, and Marilyn F. Johnson (2018) Motivating Compliance: Firm Response to Mandatory Disclosure Policies. Accounting Horizons: June 2018, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp. 103-119., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3086848
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
824
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies