Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Distortion by Audit: Evidence from Public Procurement

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12529

68 Pages Posted: 2 Jan 2018 Last revised: 21 Sep 2020

Maria Paula Gerardino

Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF)

Stephan Litschig

National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies (GRIPS)

Dina Pomeranz

University of Zurich; Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 2017

Abstract

Public sector audits are a key element of state capacity. However, we find that they can create unintended distortions. Regression discontinuity analysis from Chile shows that audits lowered the use of competitive auctions for public procurement, reduced supplier competition, and increased the likelihood of incumbent, small, and local firms winning contracts. We also find suggestive evidence of a price increase. Looking inside the black box of the audit process reveals that relative to comparable direct contracts, auctions underwent more than twice as many checks and led to twice as many detected infractions. These findings show that standard audit protocols can mechanically discourage the use of more regulated, complex and transparent procedures that involve more auditable steps.

Suggested Citation:

Gerardino, Maria Paula and Litschig, Stephan and Pomeranz, Dina, Distortion by Audit: Evidence from Public Procurement (December 2017). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP12529, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095579
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
47 References
Procurement-USFR VI-G and R7-2-1001 et seq Posted: 2020
Arun Advani , William Elming , Jonathan Shaw
The Dynamic Effects of Tax Audits Posted: 2019
Emmanuelle Auriol , Stéphane Straub , Thomas Flochel
Public Procurement and Rent-Seeking: The Case of Paraguay
World Development , volume 77 , issue C , p. 395 - 407 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Eric Avis , Claudio Ferraz , Frederico Finan
Do Government Audits Reduce Corruption? Estimating the Impacts of Exposing Corrupt Politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , issue 5 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
2
ABSTRACT VIEWS
941
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies