Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study on the Definition of State Governance Function of Government Accounting

14 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2018

Shuguang Zhou

Southeast University - School of Economics and Management, Students

Zhibin Chen

Southeast University - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: January 17, 2018

Abstract

Government accounting can play a fundamental role in terms of institutional support and information support with regard to state governance. Firstly, this paper focuses on state governance in the core category of public power disposition and operation. Then, starting from the fundamental system of government accounting in state governance and its role of basic information tool, this paper systematically analyzes the mechanism of government accounting in state governance. Based on this, the paper analyzes the connotation of state governance function of government accounting, thus constructing an analytical framework of this function. Therefore, this paper puts forward four concrete suggestions, namely, optimizing the disposition of public power, safeguarding the operation of public power, supervising the operation of public power, and evaluating the effectiveness of public power operation. This paper can provide theoretical support and practical guidance for the use of government accounting as the information tool for the state governance entities.

Keywords: Government Accounting, State Governance, State Governance Function

JEL Classification: M4, M41

Suggested Citation:

Zhou, Shuguang and Chen, Zhibin, A Study on the Definition of State Governance Function of Government Accounting (January 17, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3103713 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3103713
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
J L Chan
Government Accounting: An Assessment of Theory , volume 23 , p. 13 - 20 Posted: 2003
Z B Chen
Research on Role Positioning of Government Accounting Based on Derived Functions Definition
Accounting Research , issue 1 , p. 28 - 34 Posted: 2014
Z B Chen , J T Li
The Achievement of Good Governance and Governance Effect of Government Accounting
Accounting Research , issue 5 , p. 13 - 19 Posted: 2015
Z B Chen , J Pan
The Evolution and Guiding Effect of the Government Accounting Conceptual Framework Based on State Governance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , issue 1 , p. 3 - 13 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
787
RANK
708,207
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies