Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Innovation in Public Sector Management Control Systems in the Context of New Public Management: A Case of an Australian Public Sector Organization

Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and Innovation, 12(4), 99-126, 2016

28 Pages Posted: 28 Jan 2018

Anup Chowdhury

East West University

Nikhil Chandra Shil

American International University - Bangladesh

Date Written: 2016

Abstract

This study is about the exploration of innovative management control systems in the context of New Public Management (NPM) initiatives. NPM initiatives created the changes to the structure and processes of public sector organizations with the objective of getting them to run better. A government department in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) has been selected as the field for investigation. This study draws on a single theoretical perspective, Giddens’s structuration theory to understand the management control systems evolved in the researched organization. Qualitative research methodology is applied to obtain a better understanding of the phenomena. Case-based research method is used in developing a complete understanding of the relative role of controls in the management of organizational performance. In this study, it is argued that the researched organization has adopted various management control tools to improve its performance and demonstrate transparency and accountability. Some of the control tools it has adopted are the innovations in the public sector. It appears from the case that these adopted management control tools forced the researched organization towards better performance supporting the rationale of adopting New Public Management practices.

Keywords: Innovation, Management Control Systems, New Public Management, Public Sector Organization, Structuration Theory

Suggested Citation:

Chowdhury, Anup and Shil, Nikhil Chandra, Innovation in Public Sector Management Control Systems in the Context of New Public Management: A Case of an Australian Public Sector Organization (2016). Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and Innovation, 12(4), 99-126, 2016, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3105419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
84 References
Act Government
The Public Interest Disclosure Act Posted: 1994
M Alam , S Lawrence
A new era in costing and budgeting: Implications of health sector reform in New Zealand
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 7 , issue 6 , p. 41 - 51 Posted: 1994
M Alam
Stakeholder Theory
Methodological Issues in Accounting Research: Theories and Methods , p. 207 - 222 Posted: 2006
M Alam , R Nandan
Management control systems and public sector reform: A Fijian case study. Accounting, Accountability and Performance , volume 14 , p. 1 - 28 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
327
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,876
RANK
210,914
84 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Productivity, Innovation & Technology eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies