Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Financial Reporting and Regulations in Zimbabwean and Swazi Charities: Towards a Practical Underpinning

International Journal of Sustainable Development, 1(2), 110 – 118. (2008)

11 Pages Posted: 8 Feb 2018

Seedwell T.M. Sithole

University of Tasmania

Date Written: 2008

Abstract

There has been limited research, particularly in Zimbabwe and Swaziland, on the financial reporting and regulations governing charities. This study seeks to identify the financial reporting in charities, the regulations governing these charities and analyse the regulations’ adequacy. Charities play a significant role in development, furthering social and economic objectives by increasing support to disadvantaged members of the society. There are different types of charities and new forms of charities are being established. This study focuses on not-for-profit making organisations involved with charity work in Zimbabwe and Swaziland. There has been no attempt to date of moves towards providing regulatory guidelines that will assist stakeholders in their decision-making and in the process, enhance transparency in Charities. There is a need to identify how all stakeholders can understand the financial statements of charities and in the process regulate the way they report and ensure transparency in their financial reporting. The study reports findings from interviews with charitable organisations in Zimbabwe and Swaziland. Charities sector has grown financially and the regulatory framework need to be strengthened. The recommendations should benefit users, and all stakeholders in the Charities organisations.

Keywords: Regulations, Financial reporting, Zimbabwe, Swazi, Charities

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Sithole, Seedwell T.M., Financial Reporting and Regulations in Zimbabwean and Swazi Charities: Towards a Practical Underpinning (2008). International Journal of Sustainable Development, 1(2), 110 – 118. (2008), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3113318
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
90
ABSTRACT VIEWS
917
RANK
663,174
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies