Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Recent Changes to Provincial Government Budget Reporting in Alberta

The School of Public Policy Publications, Volume 10:1, February 2018

12 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2018

Ronald D. Kneebone

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy; University of Calgary - Department of Economics

Margarita Wilkins

University of Calgary - The School of Public Policy

Date Written: February 14, 2018

Abstract

Defining a government by its finances is a tricky business. Adding to the complexity, governments can change the way they report those finances. This is the case in Alberta where, beginning under former premier Jim Prentice, the government switched from presenting its budgets from a fiscal plan (FP) basis to a consolidated financial (CF) basis. The FP approach did not include most of the financial implications of accounting for the Crown-controlled SUCH sector (school boards, universities and colleges, and health entities). CF-based budgeting now integrates these. The result is that the government now reports revenues and expenditures as being considerably larger than they were previously.

This communiqué comes to grips with the changes to accounting methods, by adjusting Alberta’s recent budgets, now reported on a CF basis, and makes those methods consistent with the FP accounting approach, used by governments in Alberta prior to 2015. This involves disentangling entity budgets, reallocating property tax shares, evaluating federal government transfers, and more. The resulting calculations make it possible to more accurately compare and contrast recent budgetary choices with those made over the past four decades.

The accounting changes also have implications for the apparent size of the annual deficit. For example, the provincial government deficit in 2016-2017 is reported as being nearly $1 billion less than is calculated to have been the case had the previous accounting approach been retained.

Suggested Citation:

Kneebone, Ron and Wilkins, Margarita, Recent Changes to Provincial Government Budget Reporting in Alberta (February 14, 2018). The School of Public Policy Publications, Volume 10:1, February 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3123980
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Alberta Innovates
Posted: 2016-05-17
Crossref
C Busby , W D Robson ; C , April Howe Institute , Alberta Government Of
Numbers You Can Trust? The Fiscal Accountability of Canada's Senior Governments , p. 2015 - 2031 Posted: 1997-04-21
R Kneebone , M Wilkins
Canadian Provincial Government Budget Data, 1980/81 to 2013/14
Canadian Public Policy , volume 42 , issue 1 Posted: 2016-03
Crossref
J Lester
Business Subsidies in Canada: Comprehensive Estimates for the Government of Canada and the Four Largest Provinces
SPP Research Papers, The School of Public Policy , volume 11 , issue 1 Posted: 2018-01
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
742
RANK
724,439
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies