Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political connections and U.S. state government resource allocation effectiveness

The Journal of Law and Economics 67(3): 639-689

77 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2018 Last revised: 26 Nov 2024

Daniel Aobdia

Pennsylvania State University - Smeal College of Business

Allison Koester

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law; Georgetown University - McDonough School of Business

Reining Petacchi

Georgetown University - Department of Accounting and Business Law

Date Written: March 01, 2024

Abstract

We find that U.S. state governments allocate economic incentive awards disproportionally to firms that are politically connected to state politicians, and that these political connections distort state government resource allocation effectiveness. A connected firm is more than three times more likely to receive an incentive award and the award amount is 51 percent larger. This relation is robust to unexpected gubernatorial departures and close gubernatorial elections where endogeneity is less of a concern. Importantly, unconnected firms that receive awards generate 1.5 to 2.0 times greater future jobs growth, and only awards to unconnected firms are associated with jobs spillover to other industries and long-run aggregate local economic growth. Connected awards are more likely and larger when politicians’ motives appear self-serving. Collectively these findings suggest that awarding economic incentives to politically connected firms are not an effective use of state taxpayer funds.

Keywords: government economic incentives, government resource allocation, corporate political connections, economic growth

JEL Classification: D72; H25; H71; M48

Suggested Citation:

Aobdia, Daniel and Koester, Allison and Petacchi, Reining, Political connections and U.S. state government resource allocation effectiveness (March 01, 2024). The Journal of Law and Economics 67(3): 639-689, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3127038 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3127038
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
Andrew Ackerman
Deal restricts SEC from requiring disclosure of corporate political contributions
Wall Street Journal Posted: 2015-12-16
Manuel Adelino , Igor Cunha , Miguel A Ferreira
The economic effects of public financing: evidence from municipal bond ratings recalibration
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
Pat Akey
Valuing changes in political networks: Evidence from campaign contributions to close Congressional elections
Review of Financial Studies , volume 28 , issue 11 , p. 3188 - 3223 Posted: 2015
Pat Akey , Ian Appel
The limits of limited liability: Evidence from industrial pollution
The Journal of Finance , volume 76 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 55 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
847
ABSTRACT VIEWS
6,416
RANK
65,898
1 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies