Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency and Overseas Donations: Evidence from Chinese Not-for-Profit Foundations

Posted: 16 Mar 2018

Qingmei Xue

Nanjing University

Jing Lin

Saint Joseph's University

Date Written: January 9, 2018

Abstract

This research investigates how the information disclosure of NPO foundations influence the donations they receive from overseas individuals and organizations. Using a sample of top 100 foundations, we test the relation between the transparency level and subsequent overseas donations. We use FTI, a transparency index published by Chinese Foundation Center, as our proxy for transparency. The regression results suggest that the transparency level is positively associated with subsequent foreign donation received after controlling for current level of FTI and other factors influencing foreign donations. The impact is different between public foundations and nonpublic foundations. It is also different between institutional donations and individual donations. This finding is generally robust to controls for various organization specifications. Our research has implications for foundations which want to attract international donations.

Keywords: NPOs, Transparency, Overseas Donations

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Xue, Qingmei and Lin, Jing, Transparency and Overseas Donations: Evidence from Chinese Not-for-Profit Foundations (January 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3139990
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
835
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies