Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budget Ratcheting and Debtholders’ Monitoring: Evidence from Private Colleges and Universities

Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 2 Apr 2018 Last revised: 27 Mar 2021

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Akinobu Shuto

University of Tokyo - Graduate School of Economics

Date Written: March 27, 2021

Abstract

This study examines whether budget ratcheting occurs in Japanese private colleges and universities (PC&Us) and how debtholders affect it. We predict that managers of Japanese PC&Us have incentives to increase their budgets in order to enhance their reputation from internal stakeholders; moreover, most of their stakeholders are less likely to strictly monitor the manager’s behavior, which creates the opportunity for budget ratcheting. First, we find that the budget for program expense increases associated with prior year overspending is larger than for decreases associated with underspending of the same amount, consistent with the budget ratcheting hypothesis. Second, we also find that the extent of budget ratcheting is less pronounced in PC&Us with debtholders and earnings losses, suggesting that debtholders such as banks monitor budgetary practices. This study contributes to the budget ratcheting literature by adding new findings on the budget ratcheting practices of nonprofit organizations, namely, PC&Us.

Keywords: budget ratcheting; program expense; debtholders’ monitoring; private colleges and universities

JEL Classification: I23, L31, M41, M48, H83

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto and Shuto, Akinobu, Budget Ratcheting and Debtholders’ Monitoring: Evidence from Private Colleges and Universities (March 27, 2021). Journal of Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140583 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3140583
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
191
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,801
RANK
362,814
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies