Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Good University Governance on Human Capital

Acc. Fin. Review 3(1) 01–08 (2018)

8 Pages Posted: 11 May 2018

Noorina Hartati

Universitas Terbuka

Ali Muktiyanto

Universitas Terbuka

Rini Dwiyani Hadiwidjaja

Universitas Terbuka

Date Written: March 5, 2018

Abstract

Objective – This paper examines the influence of Good University Governance (‘GUG’) on Human Capital (‘HC’) and Quality, as well as the influence of CUG on HC through the use of Quality.

Methodology/Technique – This research uses an explanatory survey design. The data was collected by visiting state and private universities in Indonesia that offer an S1 Accounting Study Program. Twenty cities were covered and responses to 70 questionnaires were processed. The influence of GUG on HC was analysed using a Structural Equation Model (SEM).

Findings – The study found that GUG has a significant positive effect on Quality and GUG has a significant positive effect on HC. However, the influence of Quality on HC and the indirect influence of GUG on HC through Quality were negatively significant. Overall, the total influence of GUG on HC was positively significant.

Novelty – This study suggests that GUG improves HC and the Quality of services in Indonesian universities. However, improved quality of HC seems to lead to a deterioration in the quality of university services. Further, quality of services fails to mediate the influence of GUG on HC.

Keywords: Good University Governance; Human Capital; Quality; S1 Accounting Study Program; Universities; Indonesia

JEL Classification: O15, I23, J24

Suggested Citation:

Hartati, Noorina and Muktiyanto, Ali and Hadiwidjaja, Rini Dwiyani, The Influence of Good University Governance on Human Capital (March 5, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3(1) 01–08 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3147771
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
Constantin
The Intellectual Capital of Universities
Bucharest: Academy of Economic Studies Posted: 2005
D Darmawati , K Khomsiyah , R G Rahayu
Hubungan Corporate Governance dan kinerja perusahaan
The Indonesian Journal of Accounting Research , volume 8 , issue 1 Posted: 2005
Noorina Hartati
Disclosure of Intellectual Capital: Mandatory or Voluntary?
Journal of Accounting and Business , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 39 - 45 Posted: 2014
Fabrice Henard , Alexander Mitterle
Guidelines Governance and Quality in Higher Education
OECD. Indrajit, RE, R. Djokopranoto Posted: 2006
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
773
RANK
444,235
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Labor: Human Capital eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies