Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Can Health Benefit Outcomes Benefit Public Health Budget Professionals

Phillip Candreva, Robert Eger, (2018) "Can health benefit outcomes benefit public health budget professionals", Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 30 Issue: 1, pp.59-71,

14 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2018

Philip J. Candreva

U.S. Naval Postgraduate School; Duke University - Sanford School of Public Policy

Robert Eger

Government of the United States of America - Graduate School of Business and Public Policy

Date Written: March 28, 2018

Abstract

Purpose – To assist in achieving cost effective health care allocations in a collective choice setting, the purpose of this paper is to illustrate the use of a tool not common in the public budgeting literature but is common in the health economics literature.

Design/methodology/approach – Through a meta-analysis of the health care spending literature that computed the value of quality-adjusted life years, the authors provide an alternative approach for budgeters and policymakers.

Findings – The authors provide an alternative approach for budgeters and policymakers for weighing the benefits of alternative health care spending allocations.

Originality/value – The authors introduce an alternative approach for weighing the benefits of alternative health care spending allocations. As a tool for budgeting professionals, cost per QALY allows for the opportunity to raise cost-effectiveness of public health expenditures as a tool for governments to allocate resources based on outcomes, rather than inputs.

Keywords: public health, budget

JEL Classification: H51, H61

Suggested Citation:

Candreva, Philip J. and Eger, Robert, Can Health Benefit Outcomes Benefit Public Health Budget Professionals (March 28, 2018). Phillip Candreva, Robert Eger, (2018) "Can health benefit outcomes benefit public health budget professionals", Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 30 Issue: 1, pp.59-71,, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3151899
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
O Asim , S Petrou
Valuing a QALY: review of current controversies
Expert Review of Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research , volume 5 , issue 6 , p. 667 - 669 Posted: 2005
Crossref
D Bertsimas , V F Farias , N Trichakis
On the efficiency-fairness trade-off
Management Science , volume 58 , issue 12 , p. 2234 - 2250 Posted: 2012
Crossref
D Bijlenga , G J Bonsel , E Birnie
Eliciting willingness to pay in obstetrics: comparing a direct and an indirect valuation method for complex health outcomes
Health Economics , volume 20 , issue 11 , p. 1392 - 1406 Posted: 2011
Crossref
D R Black
A strategic plan for winning the war in public health
American Journal of Health Education , volume 33 , issue 5 , p. 265 - 275 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,288
RANK
713,531
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies