Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Crafting of Budgets by Accountants with Users for Enhanced Acceptance in Public Healthcare

Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2018

Posted: 28 Apr 2018

Natalie Buckmaster

Australian National University (ANU) - Faculty of Economics & Commerce

Date Written: November 17, 2017

Abstract

This study presents a contemporary account of budgeting in a public hospital setting. Qualitative semi-structured interviews and observations of information systems and documentation are utilised to form an assessment of the relationship between accountants and users. This study finds that budgets form ongoing products requiring an iterative process of building collaborative relationships between accountants and users. Transparency and ongoing dialogue are pivotal for durability of the budgeting process. The results challenge stereotypical views of budgets being divorced from user needs. In fact, the results indicate that both the perspectives of accountants and users are broadened when they are involved in co-creating a budgeting system that fulfills their needs.

Keywords: Accountants, budgets, collaboration, enabling, healthcare, personal interaction

Suggested Citation:

Buckmaster, Natalie, The Crafting of Budgets by Accountants with Users for Enhanced Acceptance in Public Healthcare (November 17, 2017). Australian Journal of Management, Vol. 43, No. 2, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3159866
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies