Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Noncompliance and Internal Control Deficiencies on Going Concern Audit Opinions and Viability of Nonprofit Charitable Organizations

Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance 35 (3): 637-664; Article first published online: June 12, 2018; Issue published: July 1, 2020 https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X18774904

Posted: 3 May 2018 Last revised: 22 Jun 2020

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Date Written: April 16, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates whether material noncompliance (MNC) with laws and regulations and internal control deficiencies (ICDs) in a nonprofit charitable organization (NPO) affect the likelihood that the NPO receives a going concern audit opinion (GCO) and the viability of the NPO. I find that noncompliance and ICDs are positively associated with the likelihood that an NPO receives a GCO. The results also suggest that the entity-level ICDs increase auditors’ propensity to issue a GCO but ICDs that occur at the federal program level do not. The evidence from the survival analysis shows that only ICDs have significant influence on the viability of NPOs. The results of the survival analysis also show that GCO-receiving NPOs are more likely to discontinue operations than their financially distressed peers, indicating that either auditors are correct in issuing the GCOs or GCOs become self-fulfilling prophecies. Analyses of Type I/Type II misclassifications suggest that auditors make more Type I errors than Type II ones, and the accuracy of going concern decisions seems to vary by auditor type, sector, and time period. The overall findings of this study provide evidence of hidden costs of noncompliance and ICDs in NPOs, which can motivate regulators and the managers of NPOs to enhance NPOs’ governance to lower the probability of getting a GCO and improve the NPO’s sustainability.

Keywords: going concern audit opinion, nonprofit audit, noncompliance, internal control deficiencies, viability, financial distress

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun, The Impact of Noncompliance and Internal Control Deficiencies on Going Concern Audit Opinions and Viability of Nonprofit Charitable Organizations (April 16, 2018). Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance 35 (3): 637-664; Article first published online: June 12, 2018; Issue published: July 1, 2020 https://doi.org/10.1177/0148558X18774904, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3163630
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
907
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies