Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors Affecting Disclosure Practices of Annual Report Zakat Institutions in Malaysia

10 Pages Posted: 3 May 2018

Raedah Sapingi

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Sherliza Puat Nelson

International Islamic University of Malaysia (IIUM)

Siti Normala Sheikh Obid

International Islamic University

Date Written: August 16, 2017

Abstract

As the agent to the government in collecting and disbursing zakat money, zakat institutions are accountable to inform the public on how they managed the money i.e. via disclosure of zakat information in the annual report. Nevertheless, zakat institutions that supposed to disclose their activities have been argued to have low disclosure levels, it is compounded with comments from public that demand more details information especially on zakat disbursement activities. Hence, this paper interested to explore the reasons behind all these. To have better understanding the scenario, hence semi-structured interview with zakat payers, zakat officers and zakat recipients were conducted. The zakat payer category was further divided into 2 i.e. corporate zakat payers and individual zakat payers, while zakat officers and zakat recipients were selected from 3 states that represent 3 different organizational structure of zakat institutions. The findings revealed factors such as the issue of accessibility and availability, the status or organizational structure of zakat institutions and some vital issues related to the staff of zakat institutions have been raised by the participants. As a conclusion, the zakat institutions have tried their best in providing the zakat information to the public, despite that they are also facing many internal issues that probably difficult for the public to understand coupled with some areas that the public also fail to notice.

Keywords: Disclosure, Annual Report, Zakat Information

JEL Classification: M49, M41

Suggested Citation:

Sapingi, Raedah and Nelson, Sherliza Puat and Sheikh Obid, Siti Normala, Factors Affecting Disclosure Practices of Annual Report Zakat Institutions in Malaysia (August 16, 2017). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3164702 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3164702
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
Abdul Rahim Abdul Rahman &amp; Goddard , A
An interpretive inquiry of accounting practices in religious organizations
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 183 - 201 Posted: 1998
Ahmad Zamri Osman
Accountability of Waqf management: insight from praxis of nongovernmental organization (NGO)
the Seventh International Conference-The Tawhidi Epistemology: Zakat And Waqf Economy Posted: 2010
Pengurusan Zakat Di Negeri Selangor: Isu Dan Cabaran. Paper presented at the Konvensyen Kebangsaan Perancangan dan Pengurusan Harta Dalam Islam Posted: 2010
Aidit Ghazali , Jamil Osman
Introduction: history, organizational, administrative and legal framework. Zakat a case study of Malaysia Posted: 1990
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
291
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,321
RANK
239,334
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies