Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Prudential Supervisors’ Independence and Income Smoothing in European Banks

Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming

56 Pages Posted: 16 May 2018 Last revised: 4 Mar 2019

Beatriz Garcia Osma

Universidad Carlos III de Madrid ; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Araceli Mora

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Luis Porcuna-Enguix

University of Valencia

Date Written: February 22, 2019

Abstract

We investigate the role of prudential supervisors’ independence in affecting income smoothing behavior in European banks. Powerful national supervisors are predicted to influence the accounting practices of their supervised entities, shaping the properties of the accounting numbers they prepare. In particular, we study whether greater independence of powerful supervisors from the government and from the industry is associated with lower income smoothing. We use the mandatory adoption of a single set of accounting standards in Europe as a shock to the influence of prudential supervisors over national banks’ accounting practice. Our results confirm that political and industry independence of the supervisor are important determinants of income smoothing. This suggests that independence of prudential supervisors is a desirable governance characteristic, with positive impacts on financial transparency.

Keywords: Income Smoothing; Prudential Supervisors; Independent Supervisors; European Banking Industry; IAS 39; Single Supervisory Mechanism

JEL Classification: G21; G38; M40

Suggested Citation:

Garcia Osma, Beatriz and Mora, Araceli and Porcuna-Enguix, Luis, Prudential Supervisors’ Independence and Income Smoothing in European Banks (February 22, 2019). Journal of Banking and Finance, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3172753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3172753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
R Abrams , M Taylor
Issues in the Unification of Financial Sector Supervision Posted: 2000
Crossref
V V Acharya , S G Ryan
Banks' financial reporting and financial system stability
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 54 , issue 2 , p. 277 - 340 Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Alesina , G Tabellini
A positive theory of fiscal deficits and government debt
The Review of Economic Studies , volume 57 , issue 3 , p. 403 - 414 Posted: 1990
Crossref
A Alesina , G Tabellini
Bureaucrats or Politicians Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
211
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,988
RANK
330,157
16 Citations
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

European Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies