Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Influence of Organizational Structure, Environment, and Resource Provision on the Use of Accrual Accounting in Municipalities: An Institutional View

37 Pages Posted: 24 May 2018

Christian Nitzl

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Universität der Bundeswehr München

Dennis Hilgers

JKU Linz | Institute for Public and Nonprofit Management; RWTH Aachen University - Technology and Innovation Management Group

Bernhard Hirsch

Bundeswehr University Munich

Date Written: May 12, 2018

Abstract

Despite its benefits, municipalities frequently struggle to take advantage of accrual accounting as a basis for managerial decisions. We assume that the reason is that municipalities implement accrual accounting in a symbolic way for legitimacy purposes. To identify factors enhancing a more sophisticated usage of accrual accounting, we examined the influence of the specific municipality context, the organizational structure and resource provision on the degree of sophistication in the use of accrual accounting. We found that the most relevant driver for a more sophisticated use of accrual accounting is the specific context in which the municipality is embedded. Another important factor is the adequate provision of resources, such as an IT system that delivers easily accessible and accurate accounting information. Notably, the specific organizational structure of the municipality, which is often regarded as highly bureaucratic and the main obstruction to reforms, is not significant.

Keywords: Accrual Accounting, Implementation, Municipalities

Suggested Citation:

Nitzl, Christian and Hilgers, Dennis and Hirsch, Bernhard, The Influence of Organizational Structure, Environment, and Resource Provision on the Use of Accrual Accounting in Municipalities: An Institutional View (May 12, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3177409 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3177409
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
M A Abernethy , J U Stoelwinder
Budget use, task uncertainty, system goal orientation and subunit performance: A test of the 'fit' hypothesis in not-for-profit hospitals
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 16 , issue 2 , p. 105 - 120 Posted: 1991
Crossref
M Ahmed , R W Scapens
Cost Allocation in Britain: Towards an Institutional Analysis
European Accounting Review , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 204 Posted: 2000
Crossref
S W Anderson , J W Hesford , S M Young
Factors Influencing the Performance of Activity Based Costing Teams: A Field Study of ABC Model Development Time in the Automobile Industry. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 195 - 211 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S W Anderson , S M Young
The Impact of Contextual and Process Factors on the Evaluation of Activity-based Costing Systems. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 24 , issue 7 , p. 525 - 559 Posted: 1999
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,463
RANK
518,107
2 Citations
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies