Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blown Budgets: Canada's Senior Governments Need Better Fiscal Controls

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 512

24 Pages Posted: 29 May 2018

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Farah Omran

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: May 10, 2018

Abstract

In 2017, Canada’s senior governments spent some $782 billion on program expenditures and interest payments, amounting to 36 percent of gross domestic product. Control of public money is fundamental to democratic government, so it is natural to wonder how much of this activity – and the taxes, fees and borrowing that support it – reflects deliberate choices by voters and legislators. Formal accountability exists. Governments typically present budgets before or shortly after the start of the fiscal year, and budget votes are votes of confidence on which governments stand or fall. Legislatures and their committees play a key role in authorizing many specific expenditures. Governments table their public accounts, which present the audited results for actual revenues and expenses, after the end of the fiscal year. But comparing the expenses and revenues projected in the budgets of Canada’s federal, provincial and territorial governments at the beginning of the year with the results reported in their public accounts after the end of the year reveals that governments routinely miss their budget targets by economically meaningful amounts. More significant, they miss their targets in predictable ways: expenses and revenue typically come in above what the budgets promised. Over the past 15 years, senior governments’ cumulative spending overshoot adds up to $69 billion, with the Prairie Provinces and the Territories showing the biggest overruns. Even larger is the cumulative revenue overshoot: $104 billion. Governments in Canada are spending and taxing far more this year than they would have if they had delivered on their budget commitments. Comparing the annual patterns of overshoots and undershoots over time raises a further concern. Rather than overshoots of expenses coinciding with undershoots of revenue, or vice versa, as would happen if government finances were responding to economic cycles, overshoots on either side of the ledger tend to coincide – which suggests that governments are spending “windfalls” and/or managing the bottom line. Encouragingly, however, the tendency to overshoot and miss budget targets more generally, and the troubling annual patterns, seem to have become less pronounced over the past 15 years. Several steps, including estimates that are more timely and presented in the context of the government’s fiscal plan, a stronger role for legislative committees that authorize spending, and faster and more frequent publication of actual results, could further improve the record. Canada’s senior governments should improve the quality of their budget forecasts and their adherence to those forecasts, and legislators and voters should hold them accountable for doing so.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy; Federal Budgets; Government Debt and Deficits; Program Spending and Evaluation; Provincial Taxation and Budgets; Transparency of Public Finances

JEL Classification: H30; H50

Suggested Citation:

Robson, William B. P. and Omran, Farah, Blown Budgets: Canada's Senior Governments Need Better Fiscal Controls (May 10, 2018). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 512, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3179857 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3179857
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
23 References
Reid Adrian , Yvan Guillemette , William B Robson
Missed Targets: Canada's 2007 Fiscal Accountability Ranking
Backgrounder , volume 100 Posted: 2007-03
Peter Aucoin , Mark Jarvis
Modernizing Government Accountability: A Framework for Reform
Canadian School of Public Service Posted: 2005
Colin Busby , William B P Robson
Near Hits and Big Misses: Canada's 2009 Fiscal Accountability Rankings. Backgrounder 117. Toronto: C.D. Howe Institute
Backgrounder , volume 112 Posted: 2008
Benjamin Dachis , William B P Robson
Baffling Budgets: The Need for Clearer and More Comprehensive Financial Reporting by Canada's Municipalities
Backgrounder , volume 145 Posted: 2011-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
789
RANK
649,230
3 Citations
23 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies