Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Retiring Employees, Unretired Debt: The Surprising Hidden Cost of Federal Employee Pensions

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 514

20 Pages Posted: 18 Jun 2018

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Alexandre Laurin

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: May 31, 2018

Abstract

Ottawa provides its employees with defined-benefit pensions that promise relatively generous benefits to a large current and former workforce. Being largely unfunded, these plans require future taxpayer support. They also create taxpayer risk because the economic value of the benefits they will provide can fluctuate by tens of billions of dollars annually. Current accounting practices understate this burden and the risks these plans create for taxpayers and, potentially, for the employees themselves. Official figures on the current cost of these plans and their accumulated obligations are based on notional interest rates that are too high for this kind of commitment. Since pension promises are guaranteed by taxpayers and indexed to inflation, the appropriate rate for discounting the value of future payments should be the yield on federal-government real-return bonds (RRB), which for years has been much lower than the assumed rate in official figures. Correcting this distortion would produce a fair-value estimate of $245.9 billion for Ottawa's unfunded pension liability at the end of 2016/17 – around $27,000 per family of four and $96 billion higher than the reported number. Because the unfunded pension liability is part of Ottawa’s debt, applying this fair-value adjustment raises the net public debt from the $631.9 billion reported at the end 2016/17 to an adjusted $727.9 billion. Recent federal pension reforms raised participants’ share of the funding costs for these plans: for the main Public Service Plan, the reforms aimed at a 50:50 split between contributions from participants and contributions from the government as employer. Still, using notional interest rates that are higher than the appropriate ones means that the reported costs of these plans – and, therefore, the contribution rates that determine participants’ shares – are too low. Even the higher employee contributions anticipated by the reforms would leave the taxpayers’ true share far above 50 percent. A fair-value approach to the current service cost would ensure that participants and taxpayers share equally the actual cost of accruing benefits. Even 50:50 sharing of federal pensions’ actual costs as they accrue would leave taxpayers exposed to fluctuations in the value of previously earned benefits. Ottawa could protect taxpayers from this risk by capping employer contributions at a fixed share of pensionable pay. To relieve taxpayers of their current sole responsibility for risks in the federal plans, Ottawa would need to switch to a different type of plan with benefits based not only on salary and years of service but also on the plans’ funded status. Such plans, already common in much of the provincial public sector, have a variety of labels – shared-risk and target-benefit are two common ones. Their common feature is that when things do not go as expected, the plan sponsor and the employees share the costs and benefits of the new reality. More economically meaningful reporting of the plans’ benefit values and their cost to taxpayers would foster improvements in Canada’s retirement saving and income system generally. And it would foster reforms that would provide federal employees with better-funded pensions and taxpayers with protection against risks too few know they face.

Keywords: Retirement Saving and Income

JEL Classification: H5

Suggested Citation:

Robson, William B. P. and Laurin, Alexandre, Retiring Employees, Unretired Debt: The Surprising Hidden Cost of Federal Employee Pensions (May 31, 2018). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 514, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3188955 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3188955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
Aleksandar Andonov , Rob Bauer , Martijn Cremers
Toronto: University of Toronto. Rotman School of Management. International Centre for Pension Management Posted: 2016-03-19
Chapter 1: Public Sector Pension Plans Posted: 2014
Bob Baldwin
In the 'DB' pension plans versus 'DC' debate, TB plans have plenty of appeal
Intelligence Memos. Toronto: C.D. Howe Institute Posted: 2016-12-19
Tim Beauchamp
Canada's Public Sector Financial Reporting: A Look at Pensions Posted: 2014-05-19
Load more
5 Citations
Dan Ciuriak
Canada's Progressive Trade Agenda: NAFTA and Beyond
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 516 · 24 Pages · Posted: 2 Jul 2018 · Last revised: 25 Mar 2021 · Downloads: 145
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Benjamin Dachis
A Roadmap to Municipal Reform: Improving Life in Canadian Cities
C.D. Howe Institute Policy Study 46 · 288 Pages · Posted: 17 Nov 2018 · Downloads: 155
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mark Zelmer , Jeremy Kronick
International Prudential Standards in a World of Growing Nationalism and Protectionism
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 517 · 20 Pages · Posted: 1 Aug 2018 · Downloads: 61
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Mikal Skuterud , Zong Chen
Comparing Outcomes: The Relative Job-Market Performance of Former International Students
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 518 · 20 Pages · Posted: 27 Sep 2018 · Downloads: 163
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
45
ABSTRACT VIEWS
937
5 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies