Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Procurement and Changes in Firm Transparency

57 Pages Posted: 3 Jul 2018 Last revised: 23 Jul 2020

Delphine Samuels

University of Chicago -- Booth School of Business

Date Written: January 14, 2020

Abstract

The government requires its suppliers to have certain internal information processes to reduce uncertainty about their ability to fulfill their commitments. I argue that these requirements improve suppliers’ internal information, which leads to better external reporting. Using a dataset of U.S. government contracts, I find a positive relation between government contract awards and firms’ external reporting quality. Consistent with procurement-related requirements driving this relation, I find that firms improve their external reporting when they begin contracting with the government, and that the magnitude of the improvement varies predictably with contract characteristics imposing greater requirements on contractors’ internal information processes. Finally, I use the establishment of the Cost Accounting Standards Board in 1970 as a shock to contractors’ internal information requirements, and find greater improvements in external reporting among firms subject to the CASB. Overall, these results suggest that the government as a customer contributes to shaping firms’ information environments.

Keywords: government procurement, information environment, internal information processes

JEL Classification: D82, D83, G14, H57, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Samuels, Delphine, Government Procurement and Changes in Firm Transparency (January 14, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3197640 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3197640
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
N Ahadiat , K Ehrenreich
Regulatory audit functions and auditor-contractor relationships
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 11 , issue 6 , p. 4 - 10 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Y Amihud
Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects
Journal of Financial Markets , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 56 Posted: 2002
Crossref
S Anderson , H Dekker
Strategic cost management in supply chains
Executional cost management. Accounting Horizons , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 289 - 305 Posted: 2009
C Angst , E Block , J , Kelley , K
When do IT security investments matter? Accounting for the influence of institutional factors in the context of healthcare data breaches
MIS Quarterly , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 893 - 916 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,034
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,822
RANK
49,992
6 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies