Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Differences in government accounting conservatism across jurisdictions, their determinants, and consequences: the case of Canada and the United States

Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1007/s11142-021-09663-z

59 Pages Posted: 12 Jul 2018 Last revised: 1 Mar 2022

Johnathon Cziffra

HEC Montréal

Steve Fortin

University of Waterloo - School of Accounting and Finance

Zvi Singer

HEC Montreal

Date Written: June 26, 2021

Abstract

We use the year-end adjustments to the provisions for student loan losses of state and provincial governments in the U.S. and Canada to study government accounting conservatism and how it varies between these adjacent and highly integrated countries. Building on Canada’s more conservative cultural attributes, we hypothesize and find that Canadian provincial governments report more conservative provisions for student loan losses than U.S. state governments. Moreover, the year-end adjustments to the provisions in Canada are excessively conservative; they are larger than the audit materiality threshold. We further find that the political ideology of the government, government reporting incentives, government debt, and political competition are important determinants of government accounting conservatism. Finally, we find a negative association between the year-end adjustment to the provision and future student lending. This result suggests that government accounting conservatism leads to credit rationing and bears significant societal consequences for students. Overall, our study highlights important aspects of the determinants and consequences of government accounting conservatism. To the best of our knowledge, our study is the first to examine government unconditional accounting conservatism.

Keywords: Audit market concentration, excessive conservatism, government audit, auditor reputation, monopoly

JEL Classification: H81, L13, L51, M41, M42, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cziffra, Johnathon and Fortin, Steve and Singer, Zvi, Differences in government accounting conservatism across jurisdictions, their determinants, and consequences: the case of Canada and the United States (June 26, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1007/s11142-021-09663-z, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3202959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3202959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
90 References
G Abney , T Lauth
The Politics of State and City Administration Posted: 1986
A S Ahmed , B , K Billings , R M Morton , M Stanford-Harris
The role of accounting conservatism in mitigating bondholder-shareholder conflicts over dividend policy and in reducing debt costs
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 4 , p. 867 - 890 Posted: 2002
A Ali , L Hwang
Country-specific factors related to financial reporting and the value relevance of accounting data
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 38 , issue Spring , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2000
W Baber
Toward understanding the role of auditing in the public sector
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 221 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
464
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,644
RANK
141,968
1 Citations
90 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies