Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Executive Incentive Pay

69 Pages Posted: 2 Aug 2018

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: July 13, 2018

Abstract

We utilize information only recently disclosed on Form 990 to examine the use, and consequences of, incentive pay at nonprofit organizations. Bonuses are common in nonprofits, as we observe that approximately 45 percent of the forty-four thousand organization-year observations in our sample reported paying CEO bonuses. We find that the bonuses are positively associated with profitability, competition from other nonprofits, firm size, available cash, and use of compensation consultants and committees; while negatively related to board oversight, donations, and grants. Our results also suggest that donors look unfavorably at the payment of bonuses, i.e., bonuses are associated with lower future donations. Nonetheless, we find evidence consistent with the payment of bonuses incentivizing nonprofit executives as, despite reduced fundraising, future profitability and program services are positively associated with current bonus compensation.

Keywords: nonprofit, incentive pay

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Harris, Erica, Nonprofit Executive Incentive Pay (July 13, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3213375 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3213375
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
J M Abowd
Does performance based managerial compensation affect corporate performance?
Industrial and Labor Relations Review , volume 43 , issue 3 , p. 52 - 73 Posted: 1990
Crossref
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: Size, performance, and managerial incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 466 - 487 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W R Baber , P L Daniel , A A Roberts
Compensation to managers of charitable organizations: An empirical study of the role of accounting measures of program activities
The Accounting Review , volume 77 , issue 3 , p. 679 - 693 Posted: 2002
Crossref
N Balafas , C Florackis
CEO compensation and future shareholder returns: Evidence from the London Stock Exchange
Journal of Empirical Finance , volume 27 , p. 97 - 115 Posted: 2014
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,987
RANK
126,012
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies