Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Auditors' Ethics Commitment and Audit Quality

24 Pages Posted: 8 Aug 2018

Lou Zhukun

Shanghai University - School of Management

Chong Wang

Naval Postgraduate School - Graduate School of Business and Public Policy

Chuan Zhang

Shanghai Maritime University (SMU) - School of Economics and Management

Date Written: July 21, 2018

Abstract

The determinants of audit quality have drawn much research interests among academics and practitioners. This study extends extant literature in this particular area by investigating how a unique control mechanism in China, namely, government auditors’ ethics commitment, impacts audit quality. Specifically, using the survey data provided by 143 individual auditors from Chinese government audit institutions, this study finds that the strength of auditors’ ethics commitment is inversely related to reduced audit quality (RAQ) behaviors, an inverse measure of government audit quality. Moreover, a stronger perceived penalty by individual auditors deters RAQ behavior and strengths the curbing effect of ethics commitment on audit quality-reduced activities. Additionally, the authors find that as auditors’ tenure increases, ethics commitment becomes more effective in reducing RAQ occurrence, while such reinforcing effect is not present in penalty’s deterrence of RAQ behaviors.

Keywords: government audit quality, reduced audit quality (RAQ) behaviors, auditors’ ethics commitment, penalty, auditor tenure, cheap talk

Suggested Citation:

Zhukun, Lou and Wang, Chong and Zhang, Chuan, Government Auditors' Ethics Commitment and Audit Quality (July 21, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217733 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3217733
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
M Allingham , A Sandmo
Income Tax Evasion: A Theoretical Analysis
Journal of Public Economics , volume 1 , p. 323 - 338 Posted: 1972
Crossref
K Aquino , A Reed
The self-importance of moral identity
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , volume 83 , issue 6 , p. 1423 - 1440 Posted: 2002
Crossref
N Aranya , J Pollock , A Amernic
An examination of professional commitment in public accounting
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 6 , p. 271 - 280 Posted: 1981
Crossref
E M Bamber , V M Iyer
Auditors' identification with their clients and its effect on auditors' objectivity
Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 24 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
343
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,168
RANK
200,226
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies