Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Toward an Understanding of Year-over-Year Changes in Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures

39 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2018

Kevin T. Rich

Marquette University - Department of Accounting

Brent Roberts

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU), School of Business, Department of Accounting

Joseph Wall

Marquette University

Jean X. Zhang

Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU)

Date Written: July 20, 2018

Abstract

We investigate the determinants of content changes in municipal management discussion and analysis (MD&A) disclosures in terms of economic, governance, and regulatory characteristics. Similar to Brown and Tucker (2011), we calculate a difference score based on the degree to which municipal MD&As change from the previous year. Using a sample of 1,143 municipal MD&A disclosures from fiscal year 2011 to 2015, our empirical analysis suggests that MD&A content changes vary directly with changes in the unemployment rate and the fund balance of governmental funds, as well as with finance director and auditor turnover. Furthermore, we find that location in a GAAP mandated state is associated with fewer MD&A content changes. Moreover, we find that MD&A content changes are associated with greater disagreement among bond rating agencies. Overall, our analysis contributes to a better understanding of the provisions in GASB 34, specifically regarding the information required in narrative disclosures.

Keywords: Municipal MD&A; boilerplate language; similarity score; narrative disclosure

JEL Classification: G34, H55, H72

Suggested Citation:

Rich, Kevin T. and Roberts, Brent and Wall, Joseph and Zhang, Jean X., Toward an Understanding of Year-over-Year Changes in Municipal Management Discussion and Analysis Disclosures (July 20, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3217301 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3217301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
J E Alt , D D Lassen , S Rose
The causes of fiscal transparency: evidence from the US states , p. 30 - 57 Posted: 2006
M P Arena , M Dewally
Firm location and corporate debt
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 36 , issue 4 , p. 1079 - 1092 Posted: 2012
Crossref
W Baber , A Gore
Consequences of GAAP disclosure regulation: Evidence from municipal debt issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 565 - 591 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue jou_issue[1].xmlText , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
959
RANK
588,428
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies