Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluation of Stakeholders’ Ranking of Impediments to Enforcement of Annual Audit Rulings on Government Entities in Nigeria

Posted: 24 May 2019 Last revised: 14 Sep 2019

Terkura Ayem-Fella

University of Mkar

Date Written: August 9, 2018

Abstract

This study evaluated stakeholders’ ranking of the factors that inhibit enforcement of annual audit rulings on government entities in Nigeria. Accountants, law enforcement agents and judicial officers constituted the research population. Two hundred population elements made-up the sample size. The study employed a combination of convenience, purposive and simple random sampling techniques in selecting sample elements. Primary sources provided the analyzed data. The researcher used both descriptive and inferential statistics in data analysis. For test of hypothesis, the study used a combination of chi square and Kendall tau-b coefficient of concordance. Use of chi square was necessary because the items ranked were more than seven in number. Of the eight identified factors, respondents ranked lip-service commitment of top government officials as number one inhibitor. Limiting powers of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) had the least (8th) ranking. The study, however, found no significant correlation in the rankings by the stakeholders. The study recommended the setting up of Nigerian Public Sector Accounting Service Council (NPSASC), with powers to recommend the appointment and removal of Auditor-General for the Federation and States to the President and Governors respectively. Also recommended is provisions for mandatory enforcement of all audit rulings in Nigeria’s audit jurisprudence and additional powers for the Auditors –General to refer indicted persons directly to the EFCC after three months of inaction by the legislature, and for the Fiscal Responsibility Commission to institute actions against both legislators and law enforcement agencies for audit enforcement breaches.

Keywords: Enforcement, Audit ruling, Government entity

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Ayem-Fella, Terkura, Evaluation of Stakeholders’ Ranking of Impediments to Enforcement of Annual Audit Rulings on Government Entities in Nigeria (August 9, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3229362
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
492
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies