Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nondyadic Control Systems and Effort Direction Effectiveness: Evidence from the Public Sector

Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming

45 Pages Posted: 17 Aug 2018 Last revised: 19 Oct 2021

Roland F. Spekle

Nyenrode Business University

Frank Verbeeten

Utrecht University - School of Economics

Sally K. Widener

Clemson University

Date Written: September 01, 2021

Abstract

One of the main themes in the current management control literature is the study of systems of control practices. While several studies have examined pairwise (‘dyadic’) complementarities in control practices to investigate whether a control system exists, control systems may also be comprised of more than two control practices (‘nondyadic systems’). We examine whether organizations use a complementary system of three performance measurement uses to mitigate the control problem of effort direction. We illustrate how a nondyadic control system can be modeled and empirically examined using data from 162 organizational units in the public sector. Our findings are consistent with our hypothesis that operational, incentive-oriented, and exploratory uses of performance information are complementary and combine in a single system in a low contractibility setting. We also show that the intensity of use of this nondyadic control system is significantly correlated with effort direction effectiveness in conditions of low contractibility. In contrast, and consistent with our theory, we find that when contractibility is high, the combination of the three uses of performance measures is not correlated with effort direction. Jointly, our results suggest that multiple performance measurement uses combine as a nondyadic system to guide effort direction in a low contractibility setting, yet not in a high contractibility setting.

Keywords: Performance Measurement, Management Control, Contractibility, Systems of Control, Linear Systems, Public Sector

JEL Classification: M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Spekle, Roland F. and Verbeeten, Frank H.M. and Widener, Sally K., Nondyadic Control Systems and Effort Direction Effectiveness: Evidence from the Public Sector (September 01, 2021). Management Accounting Research, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3233511 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3233511
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
341
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,326
RANK
201,537
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies