Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evaluating Romanian Internal Public Auditing Using the IA-CM: Current State and Potential Developments

Hințea, C.M., Moldovan, B.A., Radu, B.V. and Suciu, R.M. (eds.), Transylvanian International Conference in Public Administration, Cluj-Napoca: Accent, 2018, pp. 280-302 (ISBN 978-606-561-184-9).

23 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2018

Felicia Macarie

Babeş-Bolyai University of Cluj-Napoca - Department of Public Administration

Octavian Moldovan

Babes-Bolyai University - Faculty of Political, Administrative and Communication Sciences

Date Written: August 21, 2018

Abstract

The main aim of this research is to assess the suitability of the Internal Audit Capability Model (IA-CM) for the Public Sector as an evaluation tool for the Romanian internal public auditing system. Although public internal audit should be functionally independent and objective while providing assurance and expertize to public managers (on both revenues and expenditures) with the aim of improving the overall activity of public institutions and managing risks, only a limited number of studies have actually evaluated the maturity (in terms of effectiveness and efficiency) of this system in Romania. Furthermore, previous studies have focused on specific institutions/case studies (and not on the general state of the public internal auditing system), were descriptive or limited to the legal requirements of the domain. In an attempt to contribute to the research field and raise awareness regarding a more complex and consistent evaluation model for practitioners, this paper filters recent official data (for the 2006- 2015 period) from the (Romanian) Central Harmonization Unit for Internal Public Audit through the lenses of the IA-CM. Beside assessing the suitability of this model as an evaluation tool for public internal auditing, our research also provides valuable insights on the current state of internal public auditing in Romania and highlights potential development in this field.

Keywords: Romanian internal public auditing, assurance mission, advisory mission, institutionalization of internal audit, internal audit capability model (IA-CM)

JEL Classification: H83, M42

Suggested Citation:

Macarie, Felicia and Moldovan, Octavian, Evaluating Romanian Internal Public Auditing Using the IA-CM: Current State and Potential Developments (August 21, 2018). Hințea, C.M., Moldovan, B.A., Radu, B.V. and Suciu, R.M. (eds.), Transylvanian International Conference in Public Administration, Cluj-Napoca: Accent, 2018, pp. 280-302 (ISBN 978-606-561-184-9)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3236590
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
107
ABSTRACT VIEWS
880
RANK
588,428
1 Citations
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies