Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Adoption of the Balanced Scorecard by Municipal Governments: Evidence From Canada

Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 1-14

14 Pages Posted: 5 Mar 2019

Kurt Schobel

Royal Military College of Canada

Peter Drogosiewicz

Royal Military College of Canada

Date Written: 2018

Abstract

This paper examines the evolving adoption of the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) in municipal governments. We conduct a study of the use of BSCs in municipal governments across Canada. Senior administrators are surveyed regarding the use of performance measures and the results are compared to a similar study conducted in 2004. The results show that municipal governments continue to focus primarily on financial metrics. Adopters recognize the value of a BSC and most no longer see the BSC as a fad or as a set of ad-hoc measures. They recognize the BSC is a valuable tool that links the municipality’s mission and strategy to objective measures. This paper extends the literature on the BSC by identifying a growing desire to improve performance measurement within Canadian municipalities. In addition, understanding the needs, concerns, and reasons for not implementing a BSC will provide practitioners with the necessary information to develop BSC tools that work for a municipal government.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Public Sector, Performance Measurement

JEL Classification: M490, H70

Suggested Citation:

Schobel, Kurt and Drogosiewicz, Peter, Adoption of the Balanced Scorecard by Municipal Governments: Evidence From Canada (2018). Global Journal of Business Research, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 1-14, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3241585
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
A Abdel-Maksoud , S Elbanna , H Mahama , R Pollanen
The use of performance information in strategic decision making in public organizations
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 28 , issue 7 , p. 528 - 549 Posted: 2015
Crossref
C A Adams , S Muir , Z Hoque
Measurement of sustainability performance in the public Sector
Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 46 - 67 Posted: 2014
Al-Haj Ahmad , F B Atieh , S H
Updating Balanced Scorecard Model for The Evaluation of The Strategic Performance in Greater Amman Municipality
European Scientific Journal , volume 12 , issue 31 , p. 307 - 329 Posted: 2016
I Brusca , V Montesinos
Implementing Performance Reporting in Local Government: a Cross-Countries Comparison
Public Performance and Management Review , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 506 - 534 Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
255
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,373
RANK
274,135
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies