Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Clinicians and Accounting: A Systematic Review and Research Directions

Financial Accountability & Management, 2019; https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/faam.12195

Posted: 26 Sep 2018

Chiara Oppi

Department of Management, University of Bergamo

Cristina Campanale

Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna di Pisa

Lino Cinquini

Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies - Institute of Management

Emidia Vagnoni

University of ferrara

Date Written: September 5, 2018

Abstract

This paper provides a review of the literature concerning clinicians’ approach to accounting information systems (AISs) in healthcare organizations. The paper examines highly rated accounting and management literature since 1980. Articles are categorized according to their research topics, settings, and methodologies, then findings are analyzed.

Results show that clinicians’ resistance to accounting is the consequence of the inadequacy of AISs, which are designed according to reforms inspired by a managerial orientation. This suggests that future research should focus on AISs design, investigating patterns of implementation of AISs that can increase clinicians’ commitment to and use of accounting for decision making.

Keywords: accounting information system; healthcare; clinician; controller; systematic literature review

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Oppi, Chiara and Campanale, Cristina and Cinquini, Lino and Vagnoni, Emidia, Clinicians and Accounting: A Systematic Review and Research Directions (September 5, 2018). Financial Accountability & Management, 2019; https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/faam.12195 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3244367
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,141
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies