Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Public Sector Accrual Accounting Reform on Fiscal Performance

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting Vol. 9 (18) pp 50-57, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 25 Oct 2018

Uche T. Agburuga

Federal University Otuoke; Federal College of Education Technical Omoku

Date Written: September 1, 2018

Abstract

This study investigates whether the expected outcome of better performance management, accountability and transparency in government following public sector accrual accounting reform would improve fiscal performance in terms of fiscal stability and fiscal sustainability. Measured as budget deficit and public debt as percentages of gross domestic product respectively, fiscal stability and sustainability were found to have improved after the implementation of accrual accounting reform by the sample of 41 central governments of developed countries. This study provides evidence of the benefits of and justification for the huge cost of implementing accrual accounting reform.

Keywords: Fiscal Stability, Fiscal Sustainability, Intergenerational Equity Theory, Matching Concept, Public Finance and Accounting

JEL Classification: H62, H63, H83, M48, P35

Suggested Citation:

Agburuga, Uche Toby, The Effect of Public Sector Accrual Accounting Reform on Fiscal Performance (September 1, 2018). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting Vol. 9 (18) pp 50-57, 2018 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3260406
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,213
RANK
418,383
12 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies