Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Restoration of Budget Control: How It Should Be? A Case Study of the Local Government of Indonesia

Acc. Fin. Review 3 (3) 84 – 92 (2018)

9 Pages Posted: 8 Nov 2018

Ratna Ayu Damayanti

Hasanuddin University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: September 30, 2018

Abstract

Objective – This research aim is to examine the phenomenon of budget control and deviant behavior in order to answer the question: “how should budget control in the government sector be in order to effectively prevent deviant behavior such as budgetary slack?” The study focuses on local governments in Indonesia, where such controls have not been able to combat budgetary slack, which has led to widespread corruption.

Methodology/Technique – This study uses the Habermas method to criticize budgetary control practices that continue in the present day.

Findings – By creating a public space over localized wisdom-based control, known as an informal control system, the weakness of formal control systems in overcoming budgetary slack with be reduced.

Novelty – This study takes a critical approach, while most previous studies have adopted a positivistic approach or an interpretative study.

Keywords: Budget, Budget Control, Budgetary Slack, Local Wisdom, Public Sector, Indonesia

JEL Classification: M10, M14, M19

Suggested Citation:

Damayanti, Ratna Ayu, Restoration of Budget Control: How It Should Be? A Case Study of the Local Government of Indonesia (September 30, 2018). Acc. Fin. Review 3 (3) 84 – 92 (2018), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267319
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
A J Berry , J Broadbent , Otley
Management Control: Theories, Issues and Performance Posted: 2005
A Bourmistrov , K Kaarbøe
From Comfort to Stretch Zones: A Field Study of Two Multinational Companies Applying
Beyond Budgeting" Ideas. Management Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 196 - 211 Posted: 2013
Crossref
T Busch
Slack in Public Administration: Conceptual and Methodological Issues
Managerial Auditing Journal , volume 17 , issue 3 , p. 153 - 159 Posted: 2002
Crossref
T Busch , O Gustafsson
Slack in the Public Sector: A Comparative Analysis of a Private and a Public Enterprise for Refuse Collection
Public Management Review , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 167 - 186 Posted: 2002
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
RANK
724,439
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies