Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Governments’ Earnings Management: Greek and Italian Evidence

Posted: 8 Nov 2018

Sandra Cohen

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Marco Bisogno

University of Salerno (Italy)

Ioanna Malkogianni

Athens University of Economics and Business - Department of Business Administration

Date Written: October 1, 2018

Abstract

The paper aims to examine earnings management practices in local governments, focusing on two Mediterranean countries, namely Greece and Italy that have comparable administration systems. According to public choice theory, the conflicting interests between politicians who pursue re-election and voters who monitor politicians’ actions to assess their alignment with social welfare create fertile ground for earnings management practices.

A large sample of Greek and Italian local governments (LGs) is analysed; the study calculates discretionary accruals, using the Jones (1991) model, and relates them to several political variables. The Greek database covers the period from 2002 to 2015 with about 4,300 observations, and the Italian database includes the period from 2008 to 2015 with about 1,130 observations. The findings from the analysis evidence that LGs engage in earnings management, the principal factor being the electoral cycle, especially in the case of Greek municipalities. Considering that many public-sector entities have implemented accrual accounting systems, this study intends to examine earnings management behavior at the local government level, providing interesting findings for researchers and policymakers.

A better understanding of the political factors and the financial conditions, which act as obstacles or facilitators, should work hand in hand with the accounting reforms. The usefulness of financial statements for decision making and control presupposes that they are of high quality, an attribute that can be impaired by earnings management.

To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate earnings management behavior in different public-sector settings.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Local Governments, Jones Model, Total Accruals, Greece, Italy

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cohen, Sandra and Bisogno, Marco and Malkogianni, Ioanna, Local Governments’ Earnings Management: Greek and Italian Evidence (October 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3267175 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3267175
 Not Available for Download
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,279
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Financial Economics eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies