Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Stickiness in New Zealand Charity Sector

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 17 Nov 2018

Ahsan Habib

Massey University - School of Accountancy; Massey University

Hedy Jiaying Huang

School of Accountancy, Albany Campus

Date Written: October 26, 2018

Abstract

We investigate whether New Zealand charities exhibit cost stickiness, conceptualized as cost increases in response to an increase in income that are greater than the cost decreases associated with an equivalent decrease in income. Drawing on the holistic accountability rationale, we posit that charity managers consider themselves accountable to a wider range of stakeholders and, therefore, are more concerned about the social impact of their managerial decisions. As a result, charity managers will be reluctant to adjust resources downward immediately after an income drop, as such decisions could lead to the loss of trust and confidence of their internal and external stakeholders. Based on a large sample of charities in New Zealand, we find evidence of cost stickiness. Importantly, we find that cost stickiness varies across a number of characteristics of charities, including charity size, sources of income and expenditure, crisis periods, and the sectors within which the charities operate. Our study contributes to a hitherto unexplored setting and provides empirical evidence on the theoretical debate of hierarchical versus holistic accountability in the not-for-profit sector.

Keywords: Charities, cost stickiness, holistic accountability, hierarchical accountability, New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Habib, Ahsan and Huang, Hedy Jiaying, Cost Stickiness in New Zealand Charity Sector (October 26, 2018). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3273217
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,002
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies