Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting-Based Regulation: Evidence from Health Insurers and the Affordable Care Act

The Accounting Review, volume 96, issue 2, 2021 [10.2308/tar-2019-0173]

59 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2018 Last revised: 7 Apr 2020

Evan Eastman

Florida State University

David L. Eckles

University of Georgia - Department of Insurance, Legal Studies, Real Estate

Andrew Van Buskirk

Ohio State University (OSU) - Department of Accounting & Management Information Systems

Date Written: April 3, 2020

Abstract

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) requires that insurers spend a minimum amount of their premium revenue on policyholder benefits. The Act specifies enforcement via a combination of insurer self-reporting, government examinations, and payment of policyholder rebates in cases where insurers fail to meet the required spending amount. We find that insurers’ reported estimates are consistently overstated in situations where more accurate estimates would have triggered rebate payments; publicly-traded insurers (particularly those exhibiting poor financial reporting quality) exhibit the strongest evidence of strategic over-estimating. In aggregate, we estimate that approximately 14 percent of insurers engage in strategic overestimates, and that insurer overestimates resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in underpaid policyholder rebates. Our study illustrates how a combination of regulatory design choices and lax oversight can weaken the effectiveness of accounting-based regulation and have substantial economic consequences.

Keywords: Earnings Management, Regulation, Health Insurance

JEL Classification: G18, G22, I13, I18, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Eastman, Evan and Eckles, David L. and Van Buskirk, Andrew, Accounting-Based Regulation: Evidence from Health Insurers and the Affordable Care Act (April 3, 2020). The Accounting Review, volume 96, issue 2, 2021 [10.2308/tar-2019-0173], Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3282300 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2308/tar-2019-0173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
422
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,095
RANK
158,557
5 Citations
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Health Care Delivery & Financing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies