Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Overview of U.S. State and Local Government Financial Reporting: A Reference for Academic Research

52 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2018 Last revised: 17 Jun 2021

Won Jung Kim

California State Unversity, Sacramento

Marlene Plumlee

University of Utah - School of Accounting

Stephen Stubben

University of Utah

Date Written: June 17, 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this paper is to encourage and support academic research related to U.S. state and local government financial reporting. We provide an overview of U.S. state and local governments and their financial reporting, discuss sources of government data available to researchers, review key streams of academic research on governmental financial reporting, and suggest opportunities for future research in this area.

Keywords: governments, governmental accounting, financial reporting

JEL Classification: H50, H70, H71, H72, H83, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Won Jung and Plumlee, Marlene A. and Stubben, Stephen, Overview of U.S. State and Local Government Financial Reporting: A Reference for Academic Research (June 17, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3286448 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3286448
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
548
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,970
RANK
115,944
1 Citations
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies