Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Fiscal Monitoring Make Better Governments? Evidence from US Municipalities

73 Pages Posted: 6 May 2020 Last revised: 8 Jan 2024

Anya Nakhmurina

Yale School of Management

Date Written: April 22, 2020

Abstract

This paper examines the effect of state-level monitoring on municipal governance, focusing on outcomes in financial reporting quality, local corruption, political entrenchment, and municipal financial soundness. I exploit the staggered adoption of fiscal monitoring policies that entail a regular review of municipal financial reports for signs of fiscal distress. I find that introducing these monitoring policies is associated with an increase in the proxies for reporting quality, a decrease in the number of corruption convictions, and a reduction in re-election likelihood for incumbent politicians. Consistent with the purpose of the policies, my evidence shows that fiscal health ratios of municipalities improve after initiating state monitoring. Collectively, my results are consistent with state fiscal monitoring improving several important aspects of municipal governance.

Keywords: Local governments, Governance, Monitoring, Stewardship, Financial reports

JEL Classification: G18, G38, H1, H11, H7, H83, M4

Suggested Citation:

Nakhmurina, Anya, Does Fiscal Monitoring Make Better Governments? Evidence from US Municipalities (April 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3293340 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3293340
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
91 References
I Abramova , J Gillette , J P Weber
Municipal organizational structure and financial reporting quality Posted: 2023
J E Alt , R C Lowry
Transparency and accountability: empirical results for US states
Journal of Theoretical Politics , volume 22 , issue 4 , p. 379 - 406 Posted: 2010
E Avis , C Ferraz , F Finan
Do government audits reduce corruption? estimating the impacts of exposing corrupt politicians
Journal of Political Economy , volume 126 , p. 1912 - 1964 Posted: 2018
W R Baber
Toward understanding the role of auditing in the public sector
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 5 , p. 213 - 227 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
785
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,914
RANK
72,940
19 Citations
91 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies