Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Internal Control by using COSO Framework on Revenue Toward Employee Performance: A Case Study in Public Hospital of South of Tangerang, Indonesia

11 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2018

Sukhman Raj Singh Dhillon

Vancouver Island University

Alfi Andri

Swiss German University

Date Written: December 11, 2018

Abstract

The study aims to investigate the effect of internal control by using COSO Framework on Employee Performance in public hospital in South of Tangerang, Indonesia. The study use public hospital which owned by Indonesian local government as sample of the study In addition, twenty respondents are participated of the study which consists of accounting & finance staff, cashier, internal audit/control unit and head of finance department. There are five elements of COSO framework that implement in the business activities and the study finds only two element of COSO framework i.e., control activities and risk assessment have significant effect to employee performance in a public hospital in Indonesia while the others element such as, control environment, information and communication and monitoring have not significant effect to employee performance. It indicates that implementation of policies and rules regulations play significant role to enhance employee performance. in addition, it also indicates rewards and punishment as a tool to control the employee and lead to employee performance.


Keywords: Internal Control, COSO Framework and Employee Performance, Public Hospital

Suggested Citation:

Dhillon, Sukhman and Andri, Alfi, The Effect of Internal Control by using COSO Framework on Revenue Toward Employee Performance: A Case Study in Public Hospital of South of Tangerang, Indonesia (December 11, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3299235 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3299235
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
488
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,343
RANK
133,571
17 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies