Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Treasury Single Account and Fund Management: A Perception of Accounting Practitioners

KIU Journal of Humanities, Vol. 2, No 1, June 2017, pp19-32. ISSN 2415-0843

Posted: 5 Feb 2019

Muideen Adeseye Awodiran

Afe Babalola University

Date Written: June 2017

Abstract

Treasury Single Account (TSA) is a constitutional tool that facilitates collection of all government incoming cash in one account through transferring of the open account balances that hold names of the ministries and government departments existed in the Central Bank and the commercial banks into one consolidated account (CRF) while all approved expenditures and trusts are implemented through this account. The high rate of corruption bedevilling Nigeria economy coupled with the recent financial crunch have necessitated operationalisation of the constitutional tool (TSA) across government ministries, parastatals, and extra ministerial departments with the sole aims of reducing siphoning of public fund, boosting revenue collection, and ensuring effective fund management. This study investigates the role of operationalised TSA in fund management by eliciting the opinion of accounting practitioners in Ado-Ekiti metropolis. Descriptive and inferential statistics were used in analysing the data for the study. The study revealed that operationalised TSA reduces mismanagement of public fund and boost government revenues. It therefore recommended that the government political will in enforcing the TSA operation be sustained to fully harness its benefits.

Keywords: TSA, Fund Management, Accountability, & Transparency

JEL Classification: M41

Suggested Citation:

Awodiran, Muideen Adeseye, Treasury Single Account and Fund Management: A Perception of Accounting Practitioners (June 2017). KIU Journal of Humanities, Vol. 2, No 1, June 2017, pp19-32. ISSN 2415-0843, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3320640
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
816
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies