Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of Appraisal Performance in Preparation of Financial Statements at Makassar Public Appraisal Services Office

7 Pages Posted: 9 Feb 2019

Nengsiana Patintingan

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Dini Fatiha Altriata

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Bernadeth Tongli

Atma Jaya Makassar University

Date Written: January 28, 2019

Abstract

This article aims to know in general about Independent Appraisal Services and become an evaluation material for the financial section of the Public Appraisal Service Office with the purpose of making a case study paper for Public Appraisal Services Office. The research approach used in this article is a qualitative approach. The data used are primary data, namely data sourced from the results of direct interviews. Secondary data, namely data obtained from the local Public Appraisal Services office and others that have been available in the form of general location conditions which include a description of location, a brief history. Analysis of Appraisal Performance in the preparation of Financial Statements the performance of the appraisal profession is also because they depend on the amount of work they complete and the validity of the financial statements that have been made by the finance department and from the beginning the approval of the administration's offer should be synchronized with the completed work and the payment or payment In short, the assignor has repayment, there is a report that must be issued to fulfill the request.

Keywords: Appraisal Performance, Financial Statements, Accounting

Suggested Citation:

Patintingan, Nengsiana and Altriata, Dini Fatiha and Tongli, Bernadeth, Analysis of Appraisal Performance in Preparation of Financial Statements at Makassar Public Appraisal Services Office (January 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3324267 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3324267
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,171
RANK
687,436
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cognitive Social Science eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies