Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Epistemic Communities on Governmental Accounting Change: A Case of New Zealand Central Government

Posted: 15 Mar 2019 Last revised: 6 Apr 2019

Oluseyi Adesina

Canterbury Christ Church University

Date Written: April 10, 2013

Abstract

Using the New Zealand central government as a case study, we review the process of adopting accrual accounting in government through the eyes of those who were directly involved in the change. The study draws on the literature on problemitization in the context of accounting change and the application of the notion of epistemic communities providing the basis for the changes that were made. Our findings show that the triggers behind the introduction of accrual accounting were closely connected with the roles played by a network of individuals within the public sector and the New Zealand central government without which the changes might not have been deemed successful. We also find that the pace at which the adoption was achieved was underpinned by the effort of these individuals. Our findings suggest that while there is no general reform format that can be applied to all countries, epistemic communities play a significant role in the successful adoption of governmental accounting reforms.

Keywords: accrual accounting; epistemic community; New Zealand

Suggested Citation:

Adesina, Oluseyi, The Impact of Epistemic Communities on Governmental Accounting Change: A Case of New Zealand Central Government (April 10, 2013). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3341355
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
709
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies