Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Municipal Consolidations Reduce Government Expenditures? Evidence on the Role of Local Involvement

Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, Working paper 3/2019

45 Pages Posted: 12 Apr 2019

Sian Mughan

Schoool of Public Affairs, Arizona State University

Date Written: March 18, 2019

Abstract

Higher levels of government motivate municipal consolidations as a tool to increase efficiency in the local government sector, yet research shows consolidations typically fail to deliver the promised spending reductions. Since mergers often require significant changes to institutional structures, one potential explanation is that local decision makers can substantially influence the outcomes of the consolidations process. To explore this possibility, this paper contrasts “encouraged but voluntary” mergers with those that were “forced” on local governments in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Results show voluntary mergers resulted in a ten percent decline in total per capita expenditures, but forced consolidations failed to reduce spending across the board. The policy conclusion is decision makers considering structural reform should invest in obtaining the support and participation of local government decision makers.

Keywords: local goverment expenditures, economies of scale, municipal amalgamation

JEL Classification: H770, H720, R510

Suggested Citation:

Mughan, Sian, When Do Municipal Consolidations Reduce Government Expenditures? Evidence on the Role of Local Involvement (March 18, 2019). Tax and Transfer Policy Institute, Working paper 3/2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3354296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3354296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
Jens Blom-Hansen , Kurt Houlberg , Søren Serritzlew , Daniel Treisman
Jurisdiction Size and Local Government Policy Expenditure: Assessing the Effect of Municipal Amalgamation
American Political Science Review , volume 110 , issue 4 , p. 812 - 831 Posted: 2016
Crossref
George Boyne
Population Size and Economies of Scale in Local Government
Policy & Politics , volume 23 , issue 3 , p. 213 - 222 Posted: 1995
Crossref
Joel Byrnes , Brian Dollery
Do Economies of Scale Exist in Australian Local Government? A Review of the Research Evidence
Urban Policy and Research , volume 20 , issue 4 , p. 391 - 414 Posted: 2002
Crossref
A Cameron , Douglas L Colin , Miller
A Practitioner's Guide to Cluster-Robust Inference
Journal of Human Resources , volume 50 , issue 2 , p. 317 - 372 Posted: 2015
Load more
2 Citations
Sebastian Blesse , Friedrich Heinemann
Citizens’ Trade-offs in State Merger Decisions: Evidence from a Randomized Survey Experiment
ZEW - Centre for European Economic Research Discussion Paper No. 19-054 · 54 Pages · Posted: 10 Dec 2019 · Downloads: 59
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Brian An , Raphael W. Bostic
What Determines Where Public Investment Goes? Regional Governance and The Role of Institutional Rules and Power
Public Administration Review, 2020 · 59 Pages · Posted: 9 Jul 2020 · Downloads: 73
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
2 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies