Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Auditor's Role in Performance Auditing: A Case Study of the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution

Journal of Contemporary Management Sciences Volume 1 (2) 1-14 JCMS Publication, 2014

14 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2019

Agus Bambang Irawan

Independent

Date Written: December 1, 2014

Abstract

The paper tries to explore the perceived auditor"s role in regard with performance auditing activities. The role of auditor is vital when conducting performance audit. In a performance audit the auditor"s role is quite unique compare than a financial auditor. The case study research is undertaken at the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution as a developing country. The research uses a complementary approach through survey with auditors from the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution and semi-structured interviews with senior auditors from the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution and representatives from central government agencies. The result shows that the perceived role of auditor in performance auditing should be as an evaluator and a consultant. Reframing the role of auditor in performance auditing is important in order to maximize the accomplishment of the performance audit objective and improve public accountability.

Keywords: Performance Auditing, Supreme Audit Institution, Public Accountability

Suggested Citation:

Irawan, Agus Bambang, The Auditor's Role in Performance Auditing: A Case Study of the Indonesian Supreme Audit Institution (December 1, 2014). Journal of Contemporary Management Sciences Volume 1 (2) 1-14 JCMS Publication, 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3356376 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3356376
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
M Barzelay
Central Audit Institutions and Performance Auditing: a Comparison Analysis of Organizational Strategies in the OECD
Governance: An International Journal of Policy and Administration , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 260 Posted: 1997
Crossref
R D Behn
Rethinking Democratic Accountability Posted: 2001
A Buckingham , P Saunders
The Survey Methods Workbook: From design to Analysis Posted: 2004
Y Gendron , D J Cooper , B Townley
The Construction of Auditing Expertise in Measuring Government Performance. Accounting
Organization and Society , volume 32 , p. 101 - 129 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
324
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,854
RANK
213,115
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies