Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Social Media, Signaling, and Donations: Testing the Financial Returns on Nonprofits’ Social Media Investment

51 Pages Posted: 24 Apr 2019 Last revised: 11 Aug 2021

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 28, 2021

Abstract

Social media outlets provide nonprofit organizations the opportunity of opening new communication and disclosure channels. Organizations must decide whether to set up these channels. They – and in turn their target audiences – must also decide how much to use social media. In this study we test a novel multi-level signaling theory framework to examine the relationship between social media investments and financial returns. Employing both cross-sectional and cross-temporal samples of 427 of the largest US non-hospital charities, we look at the association between donations and three dimensions of organizations’ social media efforts: 1) whether the organization has a social media presence, 2) how much the organization uses social media, and 3) the level of engagement of the organization’s audience. The findings support our conjecture that financial returns result from establishing a particular communication channel, from using that channel, and from having channel-specific audience engagement. We also consider how our three social media signaling dimensions condition the core donations demand variables, finding that social media substitutes for traditional fundraising expenditures. These results carry implications for the signaling and donation demand literatures and further our understanding of how these new media are changing the rules of donor engagement.

Keywords: donations, charities, nonprofits, signaling theory, social media

JEL Classification: M41, L30, D64, D60

Suggested Citation:

Harris, Erica and Neely, Daniel and Saxton, Gregory D., Social Media, Signaling, and Donations: Testing the Financial Returns on Nonprofits’ Social Media Investment (June 28, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3360173 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3360173
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
K D Aiken , D M Boush
Trustmarks, objective-source ratings, and implied investments in advertising: Investigating online trust and the context-specific nature of internet signals
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science , volume 34 , p. 308 - 323 Posted: 2006
Crossref
N Amblee , T Bui
Harnessing the influence of social proof in online shopping: The effect of electronic word of mouth on sales of digital microproducts
International Journal of Electronic Commerce , volume 16 , p. 91 - 114 Posted: 2011
Crossref
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
Crossref
S Balsam , E E Harris
Nonprofit executive incentive pay
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , p. 1665 - 1714 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
461
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,847
RANK
143,068
3 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies