Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budget and Budgetary Control: Key to Planning and Control in Public Sector

Posted: 22 Apr 2019

Nkechi Emeka-Nwokeji

Independent

Date Written: September 5, 2009

Abstract

With the increasing wave of uncertainties, socio-political instabilities and ever changing conditions of business environment, organizations are bound to realize the integrity and rationality of a budget which must be upheld at all cost possible to avoid failure in Planning. The ultimate survival of organizations is dictated by how proficiently funds are acquired and managed. Such issues as whether necessary resources are being wasted, how can available resources be more efficiently used are just a few of the many questions answered by Budget and Budgetary control. Thus, it is the purpose of this paper to examine Budget and Budgetary control as a device designed by Management to ensure the efficient use of resources. Particular emphasis is on Budget and Budgetary control as a key to planning and control in Public Sector. In examining the issue, the general matter of study is introduced alongside with the statement of purpose and significance of the work. The concept and objective of Budget and Budgetary control and Public Sector are highlighted. Furthermore, the paper went ahead to analyze Budget and Budgetary control as a key to planning in Public Sector, the importance of active participation to ensure effective budget and other conditions that must exist for Budget to be effective. Finally, suggestions were proffered and conclusion drawn.

Keywords: Budgetary Control, Planning and Control

Suggested Citation:

Emeka-Nwokeji, Nkechi, Budget and Budgetary Control: Key to Planning and Control in Public Sector (September 5, 2009). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3367201
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,562
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies