Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integrating Practice into Accounting Research

59 Pages Posted: 22 May 2019

Shivaram Rajgopal

Columbia University - Columbia Business School, Accounting, Business Law & Taxation

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: May 2, 2019

Abstract

I argue that academic research in accounting has strayed from producing work that is useful to either practitioners or policy makers. I use three criteria to arrive at that assessment: (i) how many products and processes has accounting research produced in the last 50 years? (ii) how much overlap do we observe between issues that CFOs and CEOs worry about and our published research; and (iii) is the science or the know-how in academe in a particular area ahead of that in practice? I conjecture that tuition-funded research drives this problem. I review several initiatives that have been tried at Columbia and elsewhere (i) to better integrate academic research and practice; and (ii) to disseminate our findings to practitioners. I suggest that Management Science set up a forum to encourage submissions of papers that use rigorous methods to address pressing applied problems.

Keywords: research-practice gap, Columbia, tuition funded research, Management Science, policy

JEL Classification: A20, M4

Suggested Citation:

Rajgopal, Shivaram, Integrating Practice into Accounting Research (May 2, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3368611 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3368611
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Guidance; (ii) Disbursing Cash to Shareholders: Frequently Asked Questions about Buybacks and Dividends; (iii) Measuring the Moat: Assessing the Magnitude and Sustainability of Value Creation; (iv) Sharpening Your Forecasting Skills: Foresight Is a Measurable Skill That You Can Cultivate; (v) What Does a Price-Earnings Multiple Mean? An Analytical Bridge between P/Es and Solid Economics; (vi) What Makes for a Useful Statistic
Here are a few of titles directed by Michael Mauboussin: (i) Capital Allocation Outside the U.S.: Evidence
Total Addressable , Market
Methods to Estimate a Company's Potential Sales; and (viii) Thirty Years: Reflections on the Ten Attributes of Great Investors
The Accounting Review could require two versions of each paper -the full blow academic tome and a Reader's Digest version aimed at practitioners. In the accounting area of Management Science, Suraj Srinivasan and I ask authors to voluntarily summarize the implications of their accepted papers for
A co-author points out that Rex Bates, a partner at Stein Roe and Farnham, Chicago, discussed Beaver (1968) in the Journal of Accounting Research. Somehow that tradition has dissipated in recent times
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
945
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,932
RANK
56,573
3 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies