Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governments in Business: An Empirical Analysis of the Strategies and Success of Government Linked Corporations in Singapore.

Academy of Management Annual Meetings Best Paper Proceedings 1999; August, PNS: C1-C6, Chicago, USA. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5465/APBPP.1999.2762808

35 Pages Posted: 6 Dec 2021

Kulwant Singh

National University of Singapore (NUS)

Siah Hwee Ang

Victoria University of Wellington

Date Written: January 8, 1999

Abstract

Extensive political-economy research on state owned enterprises (SOEs) generally concludes that these organizations perform poorly relative to profit oriented organizations. Possibly as a consequence, business oriented research has paid little attention to SOEs. This study demonstrates that Singapore’s SOEs, on the other hand, have been able to match non-SOEs’ standards of performance, and attributes this success, in part, to significant consistencies in the strategies implemented by these SOEs. The main strategies common to Singapore SOEs have been (1) A strong focus on profitability, (2) Striving for market-based performance benchmarks, (3) Regionalization, (4) Diversification, (5) Collaboration in general and with other SOEs, and (6) Support for national objectives and policies. The combination of these strategies, with the provision of significant managerial autonomy by the government, has allowed these SOEs to achieve relatively high levels of success. Few aspects of these strategies or of the management of SOEs are unique to Singapore, suggesting that under the right circumstances, SOEs can necessarily achieve high levels of performance.

Keywords: SOE, Singapore, profitability, performance diversification

JEL Classification: H83

Suggested Citation:

Singh, Kulwant and Ang, Siah Hwee, Governments in Business: An Empirical Analysis of the Strategies and Success of Government Linked Corporations in Singapore. (January 8, 1999). Academy of Management Annual Meetings Best Paper Proceedings 1999; August, PNS: C1-C6, Chicago, USA. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.5465/APBPP.1999.2762808, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3371930
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Heidrun Abromeit
British Steel: An Industry between the State and the Private Sector Posted: 1986
Yair Aharoni
The Evolution and Management of State Owned Enterprises Posted: 1986
Florian Alten , Von
The Role of Government in the Singapore Economy Posted: 1995
Mahmood Ayub , Sven Olaf Ali , Hegstad
Public Industrial Enterprises: Determinants of Performance Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
386
RANK
724,439
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies