Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Evaluation of Tax Governance Characteristics in the Libyan Taxation Department

Mohamed, AE, (2018), An Evaluation of Tax Governance Characteristics in the Libyan Taxation Department., The Second Conference of Corporate Governance in Libya, Al Bayda Libya.

Posted: 17 May 2019

Ahmad Mohamed

University of Tobruk- Libya

Date Written: Novmber 11, 2018

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to explore and evaluate tax governance characteristics in the Libyan Taxation Department. The study is based on a descriptive and analytical approach, and the population consists of employees of tax administrations in East Libya. For the purpose of collecting data, 60 questionnaires had been distributed while 54 of them were collected back. The study employs One-Sample T-test to evaluate practices that lead to tax governance characteristics. The findings of the study reveal that tax administration procedures and practices insure tax-payers' rights, while objectivity, independence, responsibility and accountability exist only at a medium level. Furthermore, The Taxation Department system, does not adopt policies and procedures that insure social responsibility, transparency and disclosure. Based on the findings, the study recommends: taking serious steps to increase social responsibility, transparency and disclosure by the taxation department. It also recommends adopting governance guidance for public sector as well as adopting guidance for ethics and practices in the taxation department. The study emphasizes on sitting comprehensive training programs for employees on governance, in addition to organizing conferences and workshops to increase tax awareness in the society.

Keywords: Tax Governance, Tax Administration, Corporate Governance, Public Sector Governance

JEL Classification: M40, M48, M59

Suggested Citation:

Mohamed, Ahmad, An Evaluation of Tax Governance Characteristics in the Libyan Taxation Department (Novmber 11, 2018). Mohamed, AE, (2018), An Evaluation of Tax Governance Characteristics in the Libyan Taxation Department., The Second Conference of Corporate Governance in Libya, Al Bayda Libya. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3374652
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
536
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies