Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Negotiation and Executive Gender Pay Gaps in Nonprofit Organizations

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3385848

Posted: 5 Jun 2019 Last revised: 31 Aug 2021

Andrew Finley

Claremont McKenna College - Robert Day School of Economics and Finance

Curtis M. Hall

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Amanda Marino

San Diego State University - Fowler College of Business

Date Written: March 11, 2021

Abstract

This study examines gender pay gaps among nonprofit executives and how compensation negotiability influences this disparity. Using tax return data from IRS Form 990 filings, we find that females earn 8.9 percent lower total compensation than men in our sample. Further, we observe that settings more conducive to negotiation manifest in larger pay disparities, whereas settings that limit executives’ opportunities to negotiate, or encourage females in particular to negotiate, produce smaller gender pay gaps. Our nonprofit setting constrains mechanisms such as labor force participation and risk preferences thought to explain the pay gap and our results are robust to using a Heckman correction model and matched samples. These findings provide evidence from a large-scale archival dataset of a plausible mechanism for the gender pay gap and point to a potential cost of work environments where negotiations play a larger role in setting compensation.

Keywords: Gender pay gap, Executive compensation, Nonproﬁt organization

JEL Classification: J16, J31, L30, M12

Suggested Citation:

Finley, Andrew and Hall, Curtis M. and Marino, Amanda, Negotiation and Executive Gender Pay Gaps in Nonprofit Organizations (March 11, 2021). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Claremont McKenna College Robert Day School of Economics and Finance Research Paper No. 3385848, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3385848 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3385848
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,368
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Motivation & Incentives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies