Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cost Management at Higher Education Institutions – Cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia

Kostić, M. D., Jovanović, T., Jurić, J. (2019). Cost Management at Higher Education Institutions – Cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia. Central European Public Administration Review, 17(1), pp. 131–148

18 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2019

Martina Dragija

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Tatjana Jovanović

University of Ljubljana - Faculty of Administration

Jelena Jurić

University of Mostar - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: April 29, 2019

Abstract

Higher education expenditures persistently rise due to various economic, demographic and socio-cultural reasons. This caused repeated calls for reforms of the economic model in the higher education sector and dramatically increased the importance of the economic evaluations in the last decades due to concerns for efficiency. The above academic challenges led us to pioneering an attempt to evaluate the capabilities of financial management tools for three Western Balkan countries, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia. The precondition for successful reform processes is certainly a comprehensive and high-quality accounting information system that meets not only the requirements of external reporting but also the requirements of internal users, especially the management of HEIs. In that context, the main aim of this paper is to overview the legal and organizational accounting systems’ characteristics focusing on external and internal reporting requirements, and study the level of development and usage of cost accounting at HEIs in selected countries. Therefore, our paper employs research methodology based on the survey conducted. The results show great differences in legal and organizational characteristics of accounting systems among the countries as well as in the development stages of cost accounting systems, which mainly focus on inconsistent overhead allocation as well as different accounting basis usage. The research results confirm poorly conceptualised and structured reporting of accounting information for management purposes, offering several applicable platforms for creation of performance management approaches and strategies in the public sector.

Keywords: cost management, financial accounting, higher education institutions, accrual accounting, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia

JEL Classification: I23, M41

Suggested Citation:

Dragija, Martina and Jovanović, Tatjana and Jurić, Jelena, Cost Management at Higher Education Institutions – Cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia (April 29, 2019). Kostić, M. D., Jovanović, T., Jurić, J. (2019). Cost Management at Higher Education Institutions – Cases of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia. Central European Public Administration Review, 17(1), pp. 131–148, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3395739
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
M Abbott , C Doucouliagos
The efficiency of Australian universities: a data envelopment analysis
Economics of Education Review , volume 22 , issue 1 , p. 89 - 97 Posted: 2003
Crossref
T Agasisti , G Catalano , F Di Carlo , A Erbacci
Accrual accounting in Italian universities: a technical perspective
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 28 , issue 6 , p. 494 - 508 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Y Baruch , C H Brooks
Survey response rate levels and trends in organizational research
Human Relations , issue 8 , p. 1139 - 1160 Posted: 2008
Crossref
N Branković
The system of higher education financing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, expertise Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,265
RANK
605,468
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies