Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants of Financial Reporting Quality in the Public Sector: Evidence from Indonesia

Rakhman, F. and S. Wijayana. 2019. Determinants of Financial Reporting Quality in the Public Sector: Evidence from Indonesia. The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 54 Issue 3, September.

Posted: 14 Jun 2019 Last revised: 14 Oct 2019

Fuad Rakhman

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Singgih Wijayana

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Date Written: May 2, 2019

Abstract

Most studies addressing the issue of financial reporting quality focus on corporations. This study investigates the determinants of financial reporting quality in the public sector. We use the type of audit opinion as a proxy for reporting quality, with an unqualified opinion representing the best reporting quality while a disclaimer of opinion represents the worst quality. Using manually collected data from 3,018 financial reports of local governments in Indonesia from 2008 to 2014, we find that a high proportion of capital expenditures in the total budget is associated with low financial reporting quality. Further, we find that larger and wealthier local governments are associated with higher financial reporting quality. Lastly, we find that local governments under more experienced mayors have higher reporting quality. Our results are robust to different measures of financial reporting quality. This study contributes to the reporting quality literature by providing empirical evidence on the determinants of financial reporting quality in the public sector, which has been relatively underexplored. We conclude that certain characteristics of local governments and of mayors are associated with the types of audit opinion and that financial incentives accelerate the improvement of reporting quality.

Keywords: financial reporting quality, public sector, local government, capital expenditures

Suggested Citation:

Rakhman, Fuad and Wijayana, Singgih, Determinants of Financial Reporting Quality in the Public Sector: Evidence from Indonesia (May 2, 2019). Rakhman, F. and S. Wijayana. 2019. Determinants of Financial Reporting Quality in the Public Sector: Evidence from Indonesia. The International Journal of Accounting, Vol. 54 Issue 3, September., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3396365
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,648
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies