Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Legal Reform in India: The Legal Treatment of For-Profit Entities and Other Approaches to the Reform Question

Mark Sidel, Non Profit Legal Reform in India: The Legal Treatment of For-Profit Entities and Other Approaches to the Reform Question (2019).

Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1477 (2019)

24 Pages Posted: 6 Jun 2019

Mark Sidel

University of Wisconsin Law School

Date Written: June 4, 2019

Abstract

This paper highlights the differential regulatory approaches taken by the Indian government toward the nonprofit and for-profit sectors and seeks to help to determine whether regulatory practices adopted for the for-profit sector, appropriately modified, might lighten the regulatory burden faced by the not-for-profit sector, or whether other approaches to nonprofit law reform seem more resonant and possible within India at the current moment.

In this process, I have reviewed relevant existing research and analysis and have consulted with specialists in India and the United States. Here I begin the process of identifying approaches to nonprofit legal reform that have been advocated in India, and which approaches seem more resonant.

This report covers those comparisons and alternatives and provides some initial conclusions based on discussions with three diverse groups of Indian civil society colleagues during three roundtable meetings held in Delhi, Bangalore and Mumbai in December 2018.

Keywords: Nonprofit sector, India, for-profit sector, regulation

Suggested Citation:

Sidel, Mark, Nonprofit Legal Reform in India: The Legal Treatment of For-Profit Entities and Other Approaches to the Reform Question (June 4, 2019). Mark Sidel, Non Profit Legal Reform in India: The Legal Treatment of For-Profit Entities and Other Approaches to the Reform Question (2019). , Univ. of Wisconsin Legal Studies Research Paper No. 1477 (2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3399081
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
787
RANK
702,914
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Wisconsin Law School Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies