Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Show and Tell: Rating the Fiscal Accountability of Canada’s Senior Governments, 2019

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 545, 2019, ISBN 978-1-989483-05-3

28 Pages Posted: 20 Jun 2019

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Farah Omran

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: June 13, 2019

Abstract

Canada’s federal, provincial and territorial governments raised and spent more than $810 billion in 2018 – around 40 percent of gross domestic product, or some $22,000 per Canadian. They provide services ranging from national defence and policing through social services such as health and education to income supports and business subsidies. Governments’ extraordinary powers to extract resources from taxpayers and coerce citizens make monitoring the behavior of elected officials and public officials – with meaningful opportunities to intervene if they misbehave – particularly important. In seeking to monitor the behaviour of agents who should be acting on their behalf, principals – citizens and taxpayers – have a number of tools. • the budgets governments present around the beginning of the fiscal year; • the estimates legislatures vote to approve specific programs; and • the audited financial statements governments present in their public accounts after year-end. In our assessment of the usefulness of these government financial documents, we assign letter grades for the quality of these numbers: how readily users can find them, understand them and use them to make informed decisions. In this year’s report, which covers reports and financial statements for fiscal year 2017/18, and budgets and estimates for 2018/19, New Brunswick tops the class with an A+, Alberta ranks second with an A and British Columbia third with an A–. At the other end of the scale are Manitoba with a D+ and the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, each scoring an F. The federal government (B+), Saskatchewan (B), Ontario, Nova Scotia and Yukon (B-) could join the top rank with relatively small improvements, such as moving key numbers closer to the front of their budgets, more timely presentation and publication and better reconciliation between their budgets and their main estimates. We are glad to report that, over time, the grades earned by the senior governments have improved. Two decades ago, none of Canada’s senior governments budgeted and reported its revenues, expenses and bottom line on the same accounting basis; today, consistent accounting is the rule. Among the positive highlights worth noting this year is a marked improvement in Ontario’s score, thanks to the province cleaning up problems with its accounting that had prompted qualified opinions on its financial statements from the provincial auditor general. A key aim of this annual survey is to encourage further progress. The remaining deficiencies and instances of backsliding are fixable, as the examples of the leading jurisdictions show. If Canadians demanded better financial reporting from their governments, they could get it.

Keywords: Fiscal and Tax Policy; Transparency of Public Finances

JEL Classification: H30; H50

Suggested Citation:

Robson, William B. P. and Omran, Farah, Show and Tell: Rating the Fiscal Accountability of Canada’s Senior Governments, 2019 (June 13, 2019). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 545, 2019, ISBN 978-1-989483-05-3, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3403658 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3403658
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
R Efer Ences
British Columbia
Understanding Our Audit Opinion on B.C.'s 2016/17 Summary Financial Statements Posted: 2017-09
Canada
Receiver General for Canada Posted: 2001-09
Michael Ferguson
Why Is More Attention Not Paid to Government Financial Statements
Presentation to the CPA Canada Public Sector Conference Posted: 2017-10-23
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
849
RANK
753,521
2 Citations
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies