Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Costs of Secrecy: Economic Arguments for Transparency in Public Procurement

This paper was drafted for the Open Government Partnership, to be published as part of their series: "The Skeptic's Guide to Open Government".

22 Pages Posted: 26 Jun 2019

Michael Karanicolas

UCLA Institute for Technology, Law & Policy; Yale University - Yale Information Society Project

Date Written: January 1, 2018

Abstract

This report examines data from three selected procurement systems to demonstrate the practical benefits of openness in public contracting, and specifically to demonstrate that the adoption of open contracting leads to more competitive procurement processes, and ultimately to cost-savings and gains in efficiency.

Keywords: open government, open contracting, transparency, anti-corruption

Suggested Citation:

Karanicolas, Michael, The Costs of Secrecy: Economic Arguments for Transparency in Public Procurement (January 1, 2018). This paper was drafted for the Open Government Partnership, to be published as part of their series: "The Skeptic's Guide to Open Government"., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3408746 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3408746
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
3 References
Paraguay's Spending on Cleaning , volume 7
Paraguay Spending on Cooking Utensils Electronic copy , volume 8 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Thomas Masterson
An Empirical Analysis of Gender Bias in Education Spending in Paraguay
Levy Economics Institute, Working Papers Series Pages: 27 Posted: 26 Nov 2008
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
92
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,068
RANK
653,768
3 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies