Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Large Charities' Financial Reporting Framework Choice in Australia

42 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2019

Yitang (Jenny) Yang

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: February 1, 2019

Abstract

Our study informs the current debate around financial reporting framework choice by examining factors associated with whether large charities produce General Purpose Financial Statements (GPFS) or Special Purpose Financial Statements (SPFS). For those producing GPFS, we further examine whether these charities report in accordance with the complete set of Australian Accounting Standards (Tier 1) or Reduced Disclosure Requirements (Tier 2), as per AASB 1053. Using manually-collected data from 7,637 large-registered charities, we find that while revenue concentration, total revenue, donation income, deductible gift recipient endorsement and total liabilities are significant in explaining charities producing GPFS, around 88 percent of the variation could not be explained by a model containing eight measures of the three indicative factors from the Statement of Accounting Concepts (SAC) 1. Further, we find significant variation across different industry sectors and types of audit providers in factors explaining charities’ decisions to produce GPFS versus SPFS. For those that lodge GPFS, we find that the model has very little explanatory power for choice of GFPS Tier 1 versus Tier 2. For the comparison of SPFS versus GPFS-Tier 2, charities are more likely to be audited by a Big 4 or a mid-tier audit firm, and have a greater spread of ownership, a higher economic importance, and a higher level of indebtedness. Our results inform charities and accounting firms in factors influencing their choice of financial reporting frameworks, and the AASB and the ACNC in their current review of reporting frameworks.

Keywords: AASB 1053, Audit of charities, Differential reporting, Financial reporting framework, Reduced disclosure, SAC 1

JEL Classification: M42; M41; M48

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yitang and Simnett, Roger, Large Charities' Financial Reporting Framework Choice in Australia (February 1, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3412617 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3412617
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,414
RANK
487,221
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies