Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Accounting Standardization System for Public Administrations and the Impact of Their Adoption on Higher Education in Portugal

Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2, No.2, 2019

17 Pages Posted: 2 Jul 2019

Maria da Conceicao da Costa Marques

ISCAC Coimbra Business School

Date Written: June 11, 2019

Abstract

The Accounting Standardization System for Public Administrations (SNCAP) was approved by Decree-Law no. 192/2015 (DL) of September 11 and constitutes the new accounting system for public administrations. With the approval of the SNC-AP, it will be possible to implement the accrual basis in accounting and financial reporting of public administrations, articulating it with the current modified cash basis, establishing the grounds for a state budgeting on an accrual basis. According to the legal regime of higher education institutions (RJIES), there are university teaching institutions and institutions of polytechnic education. In this way, HEIs adopting the SNC-AP will have to prepare the opening balance sheet for the 2018 financial year in accordance with the new regulations, which implies a set of adjustments to the last balance prepared according to the POC-Educação.

Keywords: Public Accounting, SNC-AP, Public Administrations, Reform, Higher Education Institutions

Suggested Citation:

Marques, Maria da Conceicao da Costa, The Accounting Standardization System for Public Administrations and the Impact of Their Adoption on Higher Education in Portugal (June 11, 2019). Journal of Economics and Business, Vol.2, No.2, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3413413 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3413413
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
16 References
R Bogdan , S Biklen
Investigação Qualitativa em Educação -uma introdução à teoria e aos métodos Posted: 1994
A Carvalho , J Carreira
Considerações sobre o impacto do novo modelo contabilístico (SNC-AP) nas contas das autarquias locais
XVII Encuentro AECA Posted: 2016
J Carvalho , V Simões
Formação Normativo SNC-AP. Ordem dos Contabilistas Certificados Posted: 2016
Comissão De , Normalização Contabilística
Manual de Implementação do SNC-AP -2.ª versão. Hood
The "new public management" in the 1980s: Variations on a theme , volume 20 , p. 93 - 109 Posted: 1995-02
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
88
ABSTRACT VIEWS
746
RANK
672,649
16 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies