Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Comparison of German, Swiss and Polish Fiscal Rules Using Monte Carlo Simulations

34 Pages Posted: 19 Jul 2019

Adam Pigoń

Institure For Structural Research

Michał Ramsza

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Date Written: July 19, 2019

Abstract

This paper assesses the economic implications of existing fiscal rules in Poland, Switzerland and Germany. In the analysis we establish economic relationships between output, government revenues and expenditures estimating a VAR model on US data for the years 1960–2015. Imposing fiscal policies implied by a given rule on those relationships, we analyze the consequences for the simulated paths of debts, deficits and expenditures in terms of stability and cyclicality. We find that the Swiss and German rules are strict and stabilize deficits at low levels. However, this may still not be sufficient to stabilize debt, in the long run, in a strict sense. The Polish rule stabilizes the debt level at about 40-50% of the GDP in the long run. All rules imply an anticyclical fiscal policy: an increase of the deficit to GDP ratio implied by changes in the output gap equals, at most, 2.2 pp, 3.3 pp and 3.9 pp over the whole business cycle for the Polish, Swiss and German rules, respectively. These results can be perceived as satisfactory for the Swiss and German rules.

Keywords: fiscal policy, fiscal rules

JEL Classification: C32, E62, H62, H63

Suggested Citation:

Pigoń, Adam and Ramsza, Michał, A Comparison of German, Swiss and Polish Fiscal Rules Using Monte Carlo Simulations (July 19, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3422721 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3422721
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
65 References
A Alesina , T Bayoumi
The costs and benefits of fiscal rules: evidence from U.S. states. NBER Working Paper 5614 Posted: 1996
Crossref
A Alesina , F Campante , G Tabellini
Why is fiscal policy often procyclical
Journal of the European Economic Association , volume 6 , issue 5 , p. 1006 - 1036 Posted: 2008
Crossref
A Alesina , A Passalacqua
The political economy of government debt
Handbook of Macroeconomics 2B Posted: 2016
Crossref
A Alesina , R Perotti
The political economy of budget deficits Posted: 1994
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
747
RANK
914,805
65 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Econometrics: Econometric & Statistical Methods - General eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies