Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Beneficial Role of Government Accounting Literacy in Developing Participatory Citizens

Karatzimas, S. The beneficial role of government accounting literacy in developing participatory citizens, Accounting Education, Forthcoming

Posted: 24 Jul 2019 Last revised: 2 Mar 2020

Sotirios Karatzimas

Autonomous University of Barcelona; Autonomous University of Barcelona

Date Written: May 22, 2019

Abstract

The aim of this study is to bring under the spotlight the need for a broader public sector accounting education plan that would facilitate the development of participatory citizens. The study develops a conceptual framework that links citizens’ government accounting literacy with various public-related decisions and in particular their voting decisions during election periods, building on democracy, democratic participation and the image of the ‘participatory citizen’. It is suggested that democratic participation could be enhanced by educating citizens on issues of public sector accounting making them able to understand, monitor and evaluate the performance of public administrations. Furthermore, the study discusses ways of enhancing citizens’ government accounting literacy through the provision of public sector accounting education in a continuous lifelong learning process. More particularly, the introduction of courses to schools that would target to the education of citizens on these aspects from an early age is discussed.

Keywords: accounting education, citizens, democratic participation, government

JEL Classification: M40, M48, A2, I2, H7

Suggested Citation:

Karatzimas, Sotirios and Karatzimas, Sotirios, The Beneficial Role of Government Accounting Literacy in Developing Participatory Citizens (May 22, 2019). Karatzimas, S. The beneficial role of government accounting literacy in developing participatory citizens, Accounting Education, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3423921 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3423921
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
810
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Public Service Delivery eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies