Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Governmental Accounting Standards on Public-Sector Pension Funding

59 Pages Posted: 19 Aug 2019 Last revised: 15 Mar 2022

Divya Anantharaman

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Elizabeth Chuk

University of California, Irvine

Date Written: February 17, 2022

Abstract

The funding policy for defined benefit pension plans covering government employees represents an important decision for government entities sponsoring those plans. In recent years, many state and local governments have experienced extreme funding shortfalls (e.g., New Jersey, Illinois, and Detroit), raising concerns about whether government entities are contributing enough to their pensions. Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statements Number 67/68 (hereafter, “GASB 67/68”) fundamentally alter the financial reporting of pension liabilities, by (i) requiring pension liabilities to be estimated using a potentially lower discount rate (which increases estimated liabilities and any funding deficits), and (ii) mandating recognition of funding deficits (surpluses), previously only disclosed in footnotes, as a liability (asset) on governmental balance sheets. Although GASB 67/68 only changes financial reporting requirements and acknowledges specifically that funding decisions are outside its scope, we find, for a sample of 100 large state-administered plans, that governments increase pension contributions significantly upon applying GASB 67/68. This funding response is stronger from governments likely to face more severe political consequences once pension deficits are made prominent by GASB 67/68. While benefit cuts are also more likely post-GASB 67/68, plans that respond with increased funding are less likely to cut benefits – suggesting that these responses substitute for each other, and that pension funding is more of a fiscal priority in some states than in others. Overall, these responses suggest that governmental entities are willing to take actions with cash flow consequences to avoid recognizing large liabilities on-balance sheet; purely accounting changes, therefore, can have “real” effects on governmental pension policy.

Keywords: Public sector pensions, valuation of pension liabilities, Governmental Accounting Standards Board

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Anantharaman, Divya and Chuk, Elizabeth, The Impact of Governmental Accounting Standards on Public-Sector Pension Funding (February 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3438074 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3438074
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
36 References
Fiscal discipline in the federal system: National Reform and the Experience of States Posted: 1987
Abigail Allen , Reining Petacchi
Public pension accounting reform: Preparer incentives and user interest Posted: 2018
Andonov , Rob M M J Aleksander , K J Bauer , Martijn Cremers
Pension fund asset allocation and liability discount rates
Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 2555 - 2595
Sarah F Anzia , Terry M Moe
Public sector unions and the costs of government
The Journal of Politics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 114 - 127 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
371
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,212
RANK
183,540
3 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies