Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Transparency and Accountability of Church Financial Reporting on the Interest of Members’ Church Giving Donations to Church

7 Pages Posted: 22 Aug 2019

Mei Munte

University of HKBP Nommensen

Debora Dongoran

University of HKBP Nommensen

Date Written: April 1, 2018

Abstract

This research aims to determine the impact of transparency and accountability of the church's financial reporting on the interest of the congregation to donate to the church. However, the transparency and accountability of church finance reporting is something that absolutely must be done to keep the faith of the congregation. Management of church finances that are not transparent and accountable will be able to cause problems in the future between the congregation and the church administrators so that among the congregation itself. The sample used is determined based on the criteria of ever donating more than the amount set by the church and has been a member of the church for at least three years. So the sample is 150 people congregation spread in seven wik. Methods of data analysis used are the classical assumption test, hypothesis test and multiple regression analysis with the help of computer program SPSS version 20.0. The results show that partially transparency has a negative effect while accountability has a positive effect on the interest of the congregation to donate to the church. And, after simultaneous testing, the results show that both simultaneously affect the congregation's interest in donating to the church. Transparency is not an element that can influence the interest of the congregation to donate to the church. Accountability of financial reporting influences the interest of the congregation because this variable is still important for the congregation to know the financial accountability of the church for the congregations’ donation.

Keywords: Interest, Transparency, Accountability

JEL Classification: G00

Suggested Citation:

Munte, Mei and Dongoran, Debora, Impact of Transparency and Accountability of Church Financial Reporting on the Interest of Members’ Church Giving Donations to Church (April 1, 2018). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3439838 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3439838
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Suharsimi Arikunto
Prosedur Penelitian Suatu Pendekatan Praktik. Rineka Cipta Posted: 2011
Badeni
Posted: 2014
Bastian , Indra
Akuntansi Yayasan dan Lembaga Publik. Penerbit Erlangga Posted: 2010
Indra Bastian
Akuntansi Sektor Publik Suatu Pengantar. Penerbit Erlangga Posted: 2010
Load more
1 Citations
Reuben Luka , David Gofwan
Faith-Based Financial Accountability in Nigeria: A Theological Perspective on Stewardship in Religious Organizations
International Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization , volume 13 , issue 1 , p. 8 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,092
ABSTRACT VIEWS
4,854
RANK
46,218
1 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies