Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trust and Disclosure Transparency in Financial Reporting of Government Agencies

60 Pages Posted: 5 Sep 2019

Kristian D. Allee

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Accounting

Bok Baik

Seoul National University

Seung-Youb Han

Seoul National University

Bong Hwan Kim

Seoul National University - Graduate School of Public Administration

Date Written: August 28, 2019

Abstract

This study examines the impact of trust on disclosure transparency in financial reporting of government agencies. Using unique data from Korean central government agencies for the period of 2011-2015, we provide evidence that trust enhances government agencies’ financial disclosure transparency. Specifically, we document that high-trust agencies are more likely to classify their accounting errors as material and recognize these errors (as a separate line item) in financial statements. This contrasts with the practice of low-trust agencies that classify similar-magnitude accounting errors as immaterial, obfuscating the information from potential scrutiny. We further find that high-trust (low-trust) agencies tend to provide more disaggregated (aggregated) service cost information. In cross-sectional analyses, we find that the impact of trust on both disclosure of accounting errors and disaggregation of service cost information is amplified when agencies have an outsider head, are more decentralized, and face higher parliamentary inspection pressures, the situations in which more information coordination is required. Taken together, our findings suggest that trust contributes to higher disclosure transparency of government financial reporting by facilitating active information production and dissemination within an organization.

Keywords: Government Accounting, Trust, Culture, Transparency, Accounting errors, Disaggregation

JEL Classification: G28, H59, M41

Suggested Citation:

Allee, Kristian D. and Baik, Bok and Han, Seung-Youb and Kim, Bong Hwan, Trust and Disclosure Transparency in Financial Reporting of Government Agencies (August 28, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3444477 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3444477
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
A A Acito , J J Burks , W B Johnson
Materiality decisions and the correction of accounting errors
The Accounting Review , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 659 - 688 Posted: 2009
Crossref
D Aobdia
The Impact of the PCAOB Individual Engagement Inspection ProcessPreliminary Evidence
The Accounting Review , volume 93 , issue 4 , p. 53 - 80 Posted: 2018
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2-3 , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
Crossref
W R Baber
Toward a framework for evaluating the role of accounting and auditing in political markets: The influence of political competition
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 9 , issue 1 , p. 57 - 73 Posted: 1990
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
205
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,670
RANK
339,352
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies