Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting Facilitating Socio-Political Aims: The Case of Maryland Hospitals

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 16 Sep 2019 Last revised: 10 Oct 2019

Margit Malmmose

Aarhus University - School of Business and Social Sciences

Negin Fouladi

School of Public Health

Date Written: September 7, 2019

Abstract

In 2014, the State of Maryland in the U.S. implemented a substantial change to their hospital payment approach in the form of ‘Global Budgets’. This strategy for financing garnered significant attention because acute care hospitals in the state transitioned from a fee-for-service hospital payment system to a prospective frame-based budget. Applying the conceptual framework of Miller and Power (2013), we emphasise how calculative practices actively influence organisational structure decision-making. The study investigates the reciprocal role of accounting practices in the facilitation of hospital policies. Findings demonstrate that accounting practices recursively constitute and reshape the organisation of hospitals. The policy change to Global Budgets has influenced accounting practices, which likewise have promoted large organisational changes that increase engagement with external stakeholders. The consequences of the Global Budget policy have been significant, leading to highly complex administrative practices while also necessitating a cost shifting in order to subsidise physician costs, due to the separation of hospitals and physician organisations. However, we also witness how Global Budgets and the combination of centralised monitoring with decentralised managerial freedom substantiate remarkable holistic quality initiatives.

Keywords: budgeting, accounting, hospitals, quality, cost

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Malmmose, Margit and Fouladi, Negin, Accounting Facilitating Socio-Political Aims: The Case of Maryland Hospitals (September 7, 2019). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3449704
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
445
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies