Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impacts of Autonomous Vehicles on Local Government Budgeting and Finance: Case of Solid Waste Collection

38 Pages Posted: 28 Oct 2019 Last revised: 2 Nov 2019

Benjamin Y. Clark

University of Oregon - School of Planning, Public Policy & Management; University of Oregon - Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact

Date Written: October 30, 2019

Abstract

Recent research on autonomous vehicles (AV) has shown a substantive dive into the technical aspects of AVs, but our understanding of the secondary effects of AVs is minimal in comparison (Glancy, 2015; Mitteregger, Soteropoulos, Bröthaler, & Dorner, 2019; Terry & Bachmann, 2019). This article offers a look at how automation of one of the cornerstones of many municipal government — solid waste collection — could be altered with the advent of AVs. In this article, full-cost accounting is used to assess how changing different inputs to the collection process, including direct, indirect, and capital costs, could yield savings for a municipal government. To conduct the analysis, data from the North Carolina Benchmarking Project for 2016-17 were evaluated, a range of assumptions were made based on the best available information on automation, and three cost scenarios were calculated for two North Carolina cities with differing means of collection today. The findings indicate savings in the long-run that could potentially reduce the cost of collecting solid waste by 27 to 60 percent.

Keywords: cost accounting, municipal government, autonomous vehicles, solid waste collection

JEL Classification: H1, H3, H42, H44, H72

Suggested Citation:

Clark, Benjamin Y., The Impacts of Autonomous Vehicles on Local Government Budgeting and Finance: Case of Solid Waste Collection (October 30, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471853 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3471853
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
E Ackerman
Trash Hauling Robots Are Cool, But Do We Really Need Them?
IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News Posted: 2015-09-22
E Ackerman
Volvo Takes the Right First Step in Autonomous Garbage Collection
IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News Posted: 2017-05-22
D N Ammons
Benchmarking as a performance management tool: Experiences among municipalities in North Carolina
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 106 - 124 Posted: 2000
Crossref
J S Brodsky
Autonomous Vehicle Regulation: How An Uncertain Legal Landscape May Hit The Brakes On Self-Driving Cars
Berkeley Technology Law Journal , volume 31 , p. 851 - 878 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
97
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,131
RANK
631,426
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies