Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Understanding and Deterring Misreporting in Nonprofits: The Joint Effects of Pay Level and Penalty Type

The Accounting Review, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0620

Posted: 28 Oct 2019 Last revised: 14 Oct 2020

Eric W. Chan

University of Texas at Austin - Department of Accounting

Xinyu Zhang

Cornell SC Johnson College of Business

Date Written: October 12, 2020

Abstract

We experimentally examine how nonprofit pay levels affect nonprofit managers’ misreporting and how different types of penalties deter such behavior. In the absence of penalties for misreporting, we find similar levels of, but different mechanisms for, misreporting by managers who select into lower- versus higher-paying nonprofits. Specifically, lower-paying nonprofits attract mission-focused managers who misreport to advance their nonprofit’s mission and justify doing so by their personal sacrifice of wealth, whereas higher-paying nonprofits attract a majority of self-focused managers who justify misreporting by focusing on their personal outcomes. Because managers who select into their nonprofit at different pay levels have different motivation and justification for misreporting, we predict and find that penalizing the nonprofit is more effective in deterring misreporting in lower-paying nonprofits, while penalizing the manager is more effective in higher-paying nonprofits. Our study contributes to theory on the behavioral drivers of nonprofit misreporting and informs practice of ways to deter it.

Keywords: nonprofit, misreporting, wage level, employee sorting

JEL Classification: D91, J31, L31, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chan, Eric W. and Zhang, Xinyu, Understanding and Deterring Misreporting in Nonprofits: The Joint Effects of Pay Level and Penalty Type (October 12, 2020). The Accounting Review, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.2308/TAR-2019-0620 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3471656 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3471656
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,359
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies