Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
General-Purpose Local Government Defaults: Type, Trend, and Impact

34 Pages Posted: 29 Oct 2019

Lang Kate Yang

George Washington University - Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration

Yulianti Abbas

University of Indonesia (UI) - Faculty of Economics and Business

Date Written: October 8, 2019

Abstract

Local governments default on their bonds when they fail to comply with the monetary and nonmonetary aspects of the debt contracts. Analyses of these defaults have relied on reports from credit rating agencies, which include only rated bonds undergoing monetary defaults. Using a unique dataset of default events, we examine all general-purpose government defaults from 2009 to 2015. After including nonrated bonds and nonmonetary defaults, we find that general-purpose local government defaults are more common than reported by the rating agencies. We present a typology of defaults based on the severity of fiscal distress they represent and tabulate the characteristics of the defaulted bonds. Most defaults occurred among non-general obligation bonds. We test and find evidence for the credit segmentation hypothesis: defaulting on a non-general obligation bond does not significantly affect the yield of future, unrelated credits of the same issuer.

Keywords: municipal bond, financial disclosure, default, fiscal stress

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Lang Kate and Abbas, Yulianti, General-Purpose Local Government Defaults: Type, Trend, and Impact (October 8, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3472118 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3472118
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
Jason Appleson , Eric Parsons , Andrew Haughwout
The Untold Story of Municipal Bond Defaults Posted: 2012
Jeffrey Chapman
State and Local Fiscal Sustainability: The Challenges. Special issue
Public Administration Review , volume 68 , p. 115 - 146 Posted: 2008
Crossref
Natalie Cohen
Municipal Default Patterns: An Historical Study
Public Budgeting & Finance , volume 9 , issue 4 , p. 55 - 65 Posted: 1989
Crossref
Christine Cuny
When Knowledge Is Power: Evidence from the Municipal Bond Market
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 65 , issue 1 , p. 109 - 137 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
957
RANK
697,608
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies