Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Capital Structure and Performance Implications of Special-Purpose Governments

32 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2019 Last revised: 7 Aug 2020

Judith Hermis

St. Mary's College of California

Robert Eger

Government of the United States of America - Graduate School of Business and Public Policy

Date Written: August 3, 2020

Abstract

Do special-purpose governments (SPGs) mimic the capital structure of private firms, when SPGs lack the market mechanism for discipline to which private-sector entities are subject? If so, what implications do those choices have on SPG performance? This paper answers these questions. SPGs are local, quasi-governmental entities established by state legislatures who have the operating flexibility of private corporations. In the United States, there are over 50,000 special-purpose governments with outstanding (and off balance-sheet) debt totaling one trillion dollars. Despite their contribution to national fiscal health, SPGs remain relatively underexplored. Using a sample of transportation SPGs over 20 years, we find that SPGs follow Myers’ and Majluf’s pecking-order theory of capital structure. Additionally, we find that increases in SPGs’ debt predicts increases in revenues and decreases in cash flows. These results help illuminate a poorly understood branch of America’s public sector.

Keywords: Financial management, capital structure, special purpose entities, fiscal federalism

JEL Classification: H77, H83, L91

Suggested Citation:

Hermis, Judith and Eger, Robert, Capital Structure and Performance Implications of Special-Purpose Governments (August 3, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3480075 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3480075
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
Donald Axelrod
Shadow Government Posted: 1992
Robert J Barro
On the determination of the public debt
The Journal of Political Economy , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 940 - 971 Posted: 1979
Crossref
J T Bennett , T J Dilorenzo
Off-Budget Activities of Local Government: The Bane of the Tax Revolt
Public Choice , volume 39 , issue 3 , p. 333 - 342 Posted: 1982
Crossref
Underground Government: The Off-Budget Public Sector. Washington: Cato Institute
Public Choice , volume 42 , issue 2 , p. 213 - 215 Posted: 1983
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
72
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,004
RANK
759,678
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies