Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who Pays for Municipal Governments? Pursuing the User Pay Model

Who Pays for Canada? Taxes and Fairness. E.A. Heaman and David Tough eds. (Kingston: Queens University Press), 2019

20 Pages Posted: 20 Nov 2019

Lindsay M. Tedds

University of Calgary - Department of Economics

Date Written: October 15, 2019

Abstract

It is undeniable that the goods, services, and privileges that municipalities provide are vital for Canadians’ well-being and that municipalities are facing increasing pressure to provide more infrastructure and services to more Canadians at a higher level of service. In order to provide this infrastructure and these services, however, municipalities have to increasingly find a way to pay for them. The key challenge then becomes, how do cities pay for these services and infrastructure? How do cities raise enough revenue to deliver these high-quality public services that will attract and retain businesses and residents in a way that does not undermine their competitive advantage and that is fair, accountable, equitable, and within their authorities? As it turns out the answer to this question is “wherever possible, charge.” That is, where possible, the direct users should pay the cost of providing municipal services.

The rest of this chapter will outline what are the two main funding choices, property taxes and user levies, for Canadian municipalities and why. If the choices for municipalities for its own source revenues are between property taxes and user levies, what are these instruments? If the choice then is between user levies and property taxes, what has been the take up of these revenue instruments by municipalities in Canada and what might be driving these decisions? Finally, which revenue tool is preferred and why, using the principles tax fairness, tax accountability, and tax equality? In essence, it boils down to establishing a strong link between expenditures and revenues, leading to a preference for user levies.

Keywords: Municipal Public Finance, User Fees, Regulatory Charges, Proprietary Charges, Municipal Revenue, Benefits Received, Tax Fairness

JEL Classification: H21, H27, H71, H72

Suggested Citation:

Tedds, Lindsay M., Who Pays for Municipal Governments? Pursuing the User Pay Model (October 15, 2019). Who Pays for Canada? Taxes and Fairness. E.A. Heaman and David Tough eds. (Kingston: Queens University Press), 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3484553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
26 References
Elsbeth Heaman , Tax , Good Order , Government
Posted: 2017
ii The first income tax was not introduced until Posted: 1917-09
Census in Brief: Municipalities in Canada with the Largest and Fastest-growing population between 2011 and 2016. Statistics Canada Catalogue no. 98-200X2016001 Posted: 2017-03-07
Canada Iv Statistics
Table 10-10-0020-01 Canadian government finance statistics for municipalities and other local public administrations (x 1,000,000) Posted: 2018-06
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
160
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,012
RANK
425,064
26 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies