Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Expense Management and the Zero-Profit Threshold

Posted: 4 Dec 2019

Stephanie Miller

Quinnipiac University School of Business

Date Written: August 2019

Abstract

In a wide variety of settings, individuals target round-numbered thresholds, relaxing effort when they are out of reach. By examining nonprofits’ propensity to cut expenses relative to the attainability of the zero-profit threshold, I show that this phenomenon occurs in nonprofits as well. I find nonprofit firms are more likely to cut expenses when faced with small expected losses than with larger losses. This suggests managers are motivated by desire to reach the zero-profit threshold rather than to improve firms’ economic situations, as the propensity to cut expenses is lower when the threshold is out of reach. This pattern varies predictably with incentives to reach the zero-profit threshold. My results are stronger in firms that have recorded losses in the prior period, which are under a greater incentive to avoid losses in the current period; they do not hold for disaster relief organizations, which I do not expect to target the zero-profit threshold on an annual basis. My results begin to close the gap in our understanding of expense management in nonprofit firms, showing how operating expenses can be used to manage earnings. Additionally, they suggest that even the lack of explicit profit motive may not quell earnings management behavior.

Keywords: Nonprofits, Expense Management, Earnings Targets, Earnings Management, Not-for-Profit

JEL Classification: M41, L31

Suggested Citation:

Miller, Stephanie, Nonprofit Expense Management and the Zero-Profit Threshold (August 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3489368 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3489368
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies