Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Positive Revenue and Economic Impact of Section 179D the Commercial Buildings Energy-Efficiency Tax Deduction

12 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2019

Ike Brannon

The Jack Kemp Foundation

Date Written: November 25, 2019

Abstract

The United States Internal Revenue Code has had a tax deduction for the design of energy efficient public or commercial buildings since 2005. However, this tax break has always been a short-term provision, extended near year end for a year or two at a time, largely because of budget exigencies created by Congressional PAYGO rules. Since the provision ostensibly costs the federal government a modicum of foregone revenue, Congress must find a way to make up for that revenue.

However, a proper accounting for the true cost savings from reduced energy consumption from the implementation of 179D would demonstrate that the provision almost assuredly saves governments--the federal, state, and local altogether--money from its implementation, by allowing local governments to overcome purely political short-term budget constraints and allowing them to make decisions that are best for taxpayers in the long run by incentivizing cost-effective energy-saving investments.

Keywords: taxes, energy, national accounting

JEL Classification: H21, H23, H43, H71, H76, H83, Q51

Suggested Citation:

Brannon, Ike, The Positive Revenue and Economic Impact of Section 179D the Commercial Buildings Energy-Efficiency Tax Deduction (November 25, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3493233 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3493233
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
143
ABSTRACT VIEWS
926
RANK
467,197
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies