Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Multiplicity of Logics, Trust and Interdependence in Donor-Imposed Reporting Practices in the Non-Profit Sector

Forthcoming, Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 18 Dec 2019

Galina Goncharenko

University of Sussex

Date Written: December 2, 2019

Abstract

Institutional donors occupy a privileged position among NGO stakeholders which enables them to satisfy their accountability demands via donor-imposed reporting in addition to official NGO information disclosures. This study explores the rationale behind the accountability demands of institutional donors and the utilisation of donor-imposed reporting for building, keeping and strengthening NGO–donor relationships by examining a case of a Norwegian advocacy NGO and its five institutional donors. Real-life constructs embedded in interview design are employed to contextualise the accounting data and expand the respondents’ perceptions by providing visibility to alternative scenarios of information provision. By approaching the topic through multi-organisational perspectives, the study reveals the confluence and interdependence in symbiotic relationships of NGOs and their long-term institutional donors, which are built through regular inter-organisational interactions around imposed accountability demands and reporting requirements. The findings demonstrate that donors’ accountability demands are motivated by their vested interests in controlling, mitigating risk, legitimating grants’ provision, influencing NGO agendas and obtaining trustworthy partners in the non-profit sector. The analysis reveals that the types of demands donors impose are determined by institutional logics embedded in their own organisational practices, ideologies and patterns of governance. The multiplicity of implied donor logics requires NGOs to adjust their identities as the notions of familiarity, compliance and consonance with these logics would signal NGOs’ trustworthiness and reliability and assist in securitisation of long-term funding. Finally, the study discusses the implications of the multiplicity of donors’ logics and imposed requirements for the accountability and reporting practices in the non-profit sector.

Keywords: NGOs, financial accountability, donor-imposed reporting, institutional donors, real-life construct

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Goncharenko, Galina, The Multiplicity of Logics, Trust and Interdependence in Donor-Imposed Reporting Practices in the Non-Profit Sector (December 2, 2019). Forthcoming, Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3497103
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
451
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies