Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Double Bottom Line: The Use of Performance Incentives in Mission-Driven Firms

63 Pages Posted: 12 Dec 2019

Sun-Moon Jung

Seoul National University

Jae Yong Shin

Seoul National University - College of Business Administration

Date Written: December 9, 2019

Abstract

In this paper, we examine the effect of introducing an incentive plan based on social performance in a sample of 188 social mission–oriented firms in Korea. We find that social performance of social enterprises (SEs) significantly improves over time after the introduction of an incentive plan based on social performance. Moreover, we document that social bonuses do not harm SEs’ financial performance, and that they have a positive spill-over effect on financial performance in SEs that have a higher level of task complementarity between social and financial goals. Finally, our results show that the positive association between social bonuses and social performance is less (more) pronounced in SEs whose managers have higher levels of prosocial motivation (perceived measurability of social performance).



Keywords: social enterprises, social performance, bonus incentives, task complementarity, perceived measurability, prosocial motivation

JEL Classification: M41, M52, J33

Suggested Citation:

Jung, Sun-Moon and Shin, Jae Yong, Double Bottom Line: The Use of Performance Incentives in Mission-Driven Firms (December 9, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3500315 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3500315
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
N Ashraf , O Bandiera , B K Jack
No margin, no mission? A field experiment on incentives for public service delivery
Journal of Public Economics , volume 120 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2014
Crossref
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , L Van Lent
Determinants of control system design in divisionalized firms
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 3 , p. 545 - 570 Posted: 2004
Crossref
R Balakrishnan , G Sprinkle , M Williamson
Contracting benefits of corporate giving: an experimental investigation
The Accounting Review , volume 86 , issue 6 , p. 1887 - 1907 Posted: 2011
Crossref
R D Banker , S Y Lee , G Potter
A field study of the impact of a performance-based incentive plan
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 21 , issue 2 , p. 195 - 226 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
199
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,529
RANK
349,147
6 Citations
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies