Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Barriers to the Implementation of Cost-Effective in Spanish Local Authorities

Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming.

64 Pages Posted: 31 Dec 2019

Manuel J. García-Fénix

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Jose María González-González

Universidad de Sevilla

Date Written: November 11, 2019

Abstract

This paper aims to analyze the main barriers to the forms of institutional work that have been developed to the implementation of Cost-Effective of Services in Local Governments (CESEL, in Spanish) in the Spanish local governments. The research methodology has consisted of a longitudinal case study conducted in the City Council of Seville that has extended in the period 2012-2018. The results have been interpreted according to the arguments of New Institutional Sociology. This paper contributes to the previous literature by proposing a theoretical model in which the institutional pressures of the context, the forms of institutional work carried out, the main barriers, the mediating factors and the actions of institutional work adopted by various actors are identified and related. As a consequence, the new cost system was configured as an instrument for improving the transparency, although with an almost null impact in the public services management.

Keywords: Cost-Effective, Spanish local government, New Institutional Sociology, Institutional work

JEL Classification: H72, M48

Suggested Citation:

García-Fénix, Manuel J. and González-González, Jose María, Barriers to the Implementation of Cost-Effective in Spanish Local Authorities (November 11, 2019). Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Forthcoming., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3501858
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
132 References
R Akbar , R A Pilcher , B Perrin
Implementing performance measurement systems: Indonesian local government under pressure
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 33 Posted: 2015
L Alcaide , M Rodríguez , R Garde
Estudio cienciométrico de la investigación en transparencia informativa, participación ciudadana y prestación de servicios públicos mediante la implementación del e-Gobierno
Revista de Contabilidad-Spanish Accounting Review , volume 17 , issue 2 , p. 130 - 142 Posted: 2014
P Araújo
Nuevo institucionalismo, teoría de la estructuración y cambio en los sistemas y prácticas de contabilidad de gestión: Teorías y métodos de investigación
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad , issue 118 , p. 693 - 724 Posted: 2003
J Battilana , T Aunno
Institutional work and the paradox of embedded agency
Institutional Work , p. 31 - 58 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
663
132 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies