Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accrual Accounting Adoption In Java Municipalities: An Empirical Investigation

International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2018

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2020

Khoirul Aswar

Universiti Utara Malaysia - Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz School of Accountancy

Siti Zabedah Saidin

Universiti Utara Malaysia

Date Written: December 1, 8

Abstract

Purpose: Beginning from the assumption that accrual accounting is useful in ensuring the high performance of management systems, this article investigates explanatory factors concerning the level of accrual accounting adoption in municipalities on the Indonesia island of Java.

Design/methodology/approach: Data collection in this study was based on a structured questionnaire sent to the Head of Accounting Sections of 119 Javanese municipalities. The instrument for content and construct validity and reliability was tested. Then, the hypotheses were tested using Structure Equation Modelling (SEM) by SmartPLS.

Findings: The results indicate that the variables of top management support, adequate training programs, and the quality of information technology has a significant effect on the level of accrual accounting adoption and key are factors influencing the level of accrual accounting adoption. They also indicate that organizational culture is an important moderating influence between these variables and the level of accrual accounting adoption.

Research limitations/implications: One of the limitations of this study is that data collection using a survey method through a questionnaire likely does not capture the wider knowledge of respondents; in addition, the questionnaires were distributed only to Javanese municipalities. The findings of this study and the limitations inherent in it can lead to some further research opportunities. For example, further research can examine neglected variables such as the size of the organization and its social capital and also the importance of organizational variables such as local political support and support from external auditing processes.

Originality/value: To the best of the researcher's knowledge, no study of Indonesian municipalities has tested the impact of factor such as top management support, and organizational culture as a moderating effect on the level of accrual accounting adoption.

Keywords: Accrual Accounting, Compliance, Government Regulations, Explanatory Factors

JEL Classification: I28, M15, M48, M53

Suggested Citation:

Aswar, Khoirul and Saidin, Siti Zabedah, Accrual Accounting Adoption In Java Municipalities: An Empirical Investigation (December 1, 8). International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research, 2018, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3502216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
I Bastian
Sistem Perencanaan dan Penganggaran Pemerintahan Daerah di Indonesia, Salemba Empat Posted: 2006
J R Blondal
Accrual accounting and budgeting: key issues and recent developments
OECD Journal on Budgeting , volume 3 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 59 Posted: 2003
B P Bloomfield , Danieli
The role of management-consultants in the development of information technology -the indissoluble nature of sociopolitical and technical skills
Journal of Management Studies , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 46 Posted: 1995
Crossref
K S Cavalluzzo , C D Ittner
Implementing performance measurement innovations: Evidence from government. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 29 , issue 3-4 , p. 243 - 267 Posted: 2004
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Khoirul Aswar
Factors on the Accrual Accounting Adoption: Empirical Evidence from Indonesia
International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research · 7 Pages · Posted: 8 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 89
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Aditya Wira Dianto , Khoirul Aswar
Assessing Accrual Accounting Implementation in Cianjur Regency: An Empirical Investigation
International Journal of Business and Economic Sciences Applied Research 2020 · 7 Pages · Posted: 28 Jul 2021 · Downloads: 78
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
858
RANK
576,053
2 Citations
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies