Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
'Free' and 'Unfree' Money in German Prisons: The Role of Accounting in Educating Public Service Users

Iloga Balep, N, Junne, J. “Free” and “unfree” money in German prisons: The role of accounting in educating public service users. Financial Acc & Man. 2020; 1– 18. Doi.org/10.1111/faam.12228

18 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2020 Last revised: 22 Jan 2020

Nathalie Iloga Balep

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Helmut Schmidt Universität

Jaromir Junne

University of the German Federal Armed Forces - Helmut Schmidt Universität

Date Written: January 16, 2020

Abstract

This paper explores how public organisations use accounting as a pedagogical instrument for educating individual citizens. Drawing on conceptions of financial literacy and governmentality, our paper presents the findings of a qualitative case study of German prisons and analyses how accounting practices shape interactions between public organisations and individual citizens. Our findings show how three types of financial accounts – prison money, gate money and private money – grant prisoners differentiated access to funds. Prison administrators refer to these accounts as “free” or “unfree”, depending on whether prisoners can decide how the money will be used. The study reveals how German law, ministries and prison administrations attach three basic virtues to prisoner accounts – legal consumption, financial prudence and social responsibility – in an attempt to include individuals (back) into a population of economically and socially functioning citizens. To public management research this paper contributes a description of how public institutions employ accounting as a pedagogical technology in interactions with individual citizens. To prior works on financial literacy we add the idea that educative measures not only produce viable and disciplined market actors, but also transport specific virtues of being a social citizen. Finally, our study discusses how disciplinary and post-disciplinary notions of accounting interact and provide possibilities for governing through freedom – even behind bars.

Keywords: financial literacy, service user, new public management, governmentality, accounting

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Iloga Balep, Nathalie and Junne, Jaromir, 'Free' and 'Unfree' Money in German Prisons: The Role of Accounting in Educating Public Service Users (January 16, 2020). Iloga Balep, N, Junne, J. “Free” and “unfree” money in German prisons: The role of accounting in educating public service users. Financial Acc & Man. 2020; 1– 18. Doi.org/10.1111/faam.12228, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3507893
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
G Abrahamsson , H Englund , J Gerdin
On the (re)construction of numbers and operational reality
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management , volume 13 , issue 2 , p. 159 - 188 Posted: 2016
Crossref
T Ahrens
Styles of accountability. Accounting
Organizations and Society , volume 21 , issue 2-3 , p. 139 - 173 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Alvesson , D Kärreman
Qualitative research and theory development: Mystery as method Posted: 2011
Crossref
K L Avio
The economics of prisons
European Journal of Law and Economics , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 143 - 175 Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
30
ABSTRACT VIEWS
666
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies