Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empowering Middle Managers in Social Services Using Management Control Systems

Forthcoming in Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management

Posted: 15 Jan 2020

Per Nikolaj Bukh

Aalborg University Business School

Anne Kirstine Svanholt

Aalborg University - Department of Business and Management

Date Written: December 25, 2019

Abstract

Purpose – This paper examines how a public sector organization combined management control systems (MCS) to comply with increased uncertainty and conflicting objectives of tight budget control, flexibility, and quality care simultaneously. It also analyzes how middle managers interpret management control intentions and manage conflicting objectives, and how locally developed MCS are coupled with top management goals.

Design/Methodology/Approach – This paper uses a case-study approach, based on interviews with top and middle managements, as well as document studies conducted at a medium-sized Danish municipality.

Findings – Both constraining and enabling control systems empower middle managers and facilitate tight budget controls. Furthermore, middle managers play a crucial role in the use of MCS, develop local control systems, adjust existing control systems, and influence the decisions and strategies of top management.

Research Limitations/Implications – This paper is context-specific, and the role of accounting in professional work varies due to the specific techniques involved.

Practical Implications – This paper shows how MCS, including budgeting and planning systems, can be applied in social services to help middle managements obtain tight budget controls while also improving service quality.

Originality/Value – This paper adds to the limited extant research on the role of middle management in a control framework and demonstrates how MCS can balance conflicting goals in social services when uncertainty increases. Furthermore, this paper shows how the vertical coupling of MCS is tight when budgeting is employed for planning purposes.

Keywords: Budgeting, empowerment, levers of control framework, management control systems, middle managers, public sector, social services

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Bukh, Per Nikolaj and Svanholt, Anne Kirstine, Empowering Middle Managers in Social Services Using Management Control Systems (December 25, 2019). Forthcoming in Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3509973
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies