Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Accounting System - A Conceptual Analysis

Vision: Journal of Indian Taxation, 2019

12 Pages Posted: 30 Dec 2019

Abhishek N

Institute of Management and Commerce, Srinivas University; University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; NIE FIRST GRADE COLLEGE; Sri Nataraja Residential First Grade College for Women

Divyashree M. S.

Government First Grade College

Date Written: December 31, 2019

Abstract

Public sector accounting is the system of accounting that involves recording and maintenance of books of accounts by the government authorities on their financial performance. There are three categories of organisations normally working in any environment: public, private and non-profit concerns. Each of these organisations is working on a different motive, for instance, private sector organisations run for making more profit for their long-existence, public organisations or governments work for socioeconomic sustainable development of the country, whereas NGOs are for rendering the services to the society at large. If this is the reality, it is clear that the financial transactions of each of these organisations are different from each other. So it is not possible to record their transactions as per single accounting standard. Hence, it is necessary to have different accounting standards applicable to these organisations individually. Government accounts must be available to the public in a transparent manner. To ensure this, it is necessary to have standards which are applicable to the public sector to account for their financial transactions. The present paper is intended to analyse the public sector accounting system at the global level and in the Indian context.

Keywords: Public sector accounting; Cash basis; Accrual basis; IPSASs; IGASs.

JEL Classification: M41;M43

Suggested Citation:

N, Abhishek and M. S., Divyashree, Public Sector Accounting System - A Conceptual Analysis (December 31, 2019). Vision: Journal of Indian Taxation, 2019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3510716 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3510716
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
6 References
E Bracci , L Papi , M Bigoni , E Deidda Gagliardo , H J Bruns
Public value and public sector accounting research: A structured literature review
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 103 - 136 Posted: 2019
Crossref
F M García
Developments and challenges in public sector accounting
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 26 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2008
Crossref
I Lapsley
Research in public sector accounting: An appraisal
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 21 - 33 Posted: 1988
Crossref
K Jayasinghe , N D Nath , R Othman
The public sector accounting, accountability and auditing in emerging economies: Insights, gaps and some new ways forward
The Public Sector Accounting, Accountability and Auditing in Emerging Economies , volume 15 , p. 1 - 6 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,647
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,707
RANK
25,186
6 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies