Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Exploring the Oversight of Risk Management in UK Higher Education Institutions: The Case of Audit Committees

Soobaroyen, T., Ntim, C.G., Broad, M.J., Vithana, K., and Agrizzi, D. (2019). ‘Exploring the Oversight of Risk Management in UK Higher Education Institutions: The Case of Audit Committees’, Accounting Forum, [In Press].

35 Pages Posted: 27 Jan 2020

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

M. J. Broad

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Krishanthi Vithana

University of Southampton

Dila Agrizzi

University of Essex

Date Written: January 1, 2020

Abstract

We explore how audit committees (ACs) oversee risk management in UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs), using semi-structured interviews, attendance at AC meetings and analysis of documentation. We find that the AC’s oversight seems constrained by a fixation on the process of risk management, a reliance on risk registers, and varying levels of emphasis on operational risks. Theoretically, the AC’s oversight reflects different shades of symbolic and substantive activities designed to maintain the HEI’s legitimacy and that of its governing board, hence providing a symbolic representation. We raise concerns as to the AC’s ability to monitor the risk management practices of HEIs effectively.

Keywords: audit committee; risk management; governance; higher education

JEL Classification: G34, M14

Suggested Citation:

Soobaroyen, Teerooven and Ntim, Collins G. and Broad, M. J. and Vithana, Krishanthi and Agrizzi, Dila, Exploring the Oversight of Risk Management in UK Higher Education Institutions: The Case of Audit Committees (January 1, 2020). Soobaroyen, T., Ntim, C.G., Broad, M.J., Vithana, K., and Agrizzi, D. (2019). ‘Exploring the Oversight of Risk Management in UK Higher Education Institutions: The Case of Audit Committees’, Accounting Forum, [In Press]., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3512609
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
112
ABSTRACT VIEWS
920
RANK
568,026
1 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Microeconomics: Decision-Making under Risk & Uncertainty eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies