Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Relationship between Financial Reporting Reforms and Performance of Selected County Governments in Kenya

International Journal of Engineering and Management Research, Volume 9, Issue 5 (October 2019)

10 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2020

Willy Rugutt

University of Kabianga - Department of Accounting and Finance

Dr. Isaac Naibei

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Dr. Peter Kimutai Cheruiyot

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: October 2019

Abstract

Over the past few decades, the world has witnessed spectacular transformations of public financial management systems. Kenya transformed its financial reporting system with a view of enhancing credibility of its financial reports. The objective of the study was to examine the relationship between financial reporting reforms and the performance of selected County Governments in Kenya. The study was guided by descriptive research design and the target population was 184 treasury staff from Bomet, Kericho, Nakuru and Narok County Governments. Census sampling technique was employed in selecting the respondents to the study. Data were collected using semi-structured, self-administered questionnaires. Data was analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. The findings revealed that financial reporting reforms showed statistically significant correlation (r=0.673) with the performance of selected County Governments in Kenya. It was recommended that adoption of IPSAS in financial reporting should be strengthened to ensure optimal performance of the county governments.

Keywords: Public Financial Management Reforms, Financial Reporting Reforms, Performance, Selected County Government, Kenya

Suggested Citation:

Rugutt, Willy and Naibei, Dr. Isaac and Cheruiyot, Dr. Peter Kimutai, Relationship between Financial Reporting Reforms and Performance of Selected County Governments in Kenya (October 2019). International Journal of Engineering and Management Research, Volume 9, Issue 5 (October 2019), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3517113
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
Aleg
The adoption and implementation of the international public sector accounting standards: The challenges faced by the United Nation in producing UN-IPSAS compliant financial reports in Kenya
International Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 75 - 91 Posted: 2016
W Atuilik
The relationship between the adoption of international public sector accounting standards (IPSAS) by governments and perceived levels of corruption Posted: 2013
Au
Joint meeting of African Union and International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board on IPSAS. IPSAS Strategy and Work plan Posted: 2018
S Bellanca , J Vandernoot
International public sector accounting standards implementation in the Russian federation
International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 1304 - 1309 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
771
RANK
517,938
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies