Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Design of Fund Accounting Application at Educational Institution Yapendik Gpib Makassar

Posted: 21 Feb 2020

Ryna Siskayunita Lagasih

Universitas Atma Jaya Makassar

Date Written: January 25, 2020

Abstract

The need to use a computer-based accounting application, not only felt by organizations that have the goal of making a profit, but also by non-profit organizations. Yapendik GPIB as educational institution feel the need to use accounting applications considering that since running Yapendik GPIB still uses a simple manual system in activities and also finance which causes many problems. Analysis methods and system design starts from system analysis, procedure analysis, system design, manual system design and new system design. The system using PHP(hypertext processor) called programming language server side because PHP is processed on the server computer. With the application of fund accounting (non-profit) that is difficult to find on the market, an application that is truly real and can be used appropriately and in accordance with the conditions on the field.

Keywords: system analysis, system design, accounting applications, fund accounting

Suggested Citation:

Lagasih, Ryna Siskayunita, The Design of Fund Accounting Application at Educational Institution Yapendik Gpib Makassar (January 25, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3525296
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Applied Computing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies