Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Neoliberalism, Accounting and the Transformation of Subjectivities in Social Work: A Study on the Implementation of Personal Budgets

30 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2020

Danny Chow

University of York

Enrico Bracci

University of Ferrara

Date Written: January 31, 2020

Abstract

This study examines, through the case of Personal Budgets in England, the role of accounting in transforming the subjectivities of social workers through a Foucauldian lens. The findings show how accounting can reshape the subjectivities of social workers serving as intermediaries responsible for the frontline implementation of neoliberal reforms. It does so through an empirical demonstration on how accounting harnesses an individual’s autonomy and responsibility to nurture ‘productive’ relationships between citizens and the state. Furthermore, the findings also highlight the vulnerability of social workers’ subjectivities from the installation of an accounting infrastructure with multiple capabilities. This study contributes to a more nuanced understanding of how neoliberal policies transforms subjectivities in social work and adds to the literature on accounting’s biopolitical role in the reconstitution of such subjectivities. It also addresses the relative neglect of studies examining the role of accounting in neoliberal transformations of social work which, despite its significance for an ageing society and its attendant consequences for public finances, receives far less attention than healthcare reforms.

Keywords: Neoliberal; Accounting; Social work; Subjectivity; Foucault

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Chow, Danny S. L. and Bracci, Enrico, Neoliberalism, Accounting and the Transformation of Subjectivities in Social Work: A Study on the Implementation of Personal Budgets (January 31, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3529221 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3529221
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
T Ahrens , J Dent
Accounting and organisations: realising the richness of field study research
Journal of Management Accounting Research , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1998
C Alawattage , C Graham , D Wickramasinghe
Microaccountability and biopolitics: Microfinance in a Sri Lankan village. Accounting
Organisations and Society , volume 72 , p. 38 - 60 Posted: 2019
Crossref
V Beattie
Accounting narratives and the narrative turn in accounting research: issues, theory, methodology, methods and a research framework
British Accounting Review , volume 46 , issue 2 , p. 111 - 134 Posted: 2014
Crossref
P J Arnold
The limits of postmodernism in accounting history: The Decatur experience. Accounting
Organisations and Society , volume 23 , issue 7 , p. 665 - 684 Posted: 1998
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
77
ABSTRACT VIEWS
986
RANK
730,194
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies