Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Diffusion and Implementation of the Balanced Scorecard in the Norwegian Municipality Sector: A Descriptive Analysis

Social Sciences, 2019, 8(5), 152; DOI/10.3390/socsci8050152

31 Pages Posted: 3 Mar 2020

Dag Øivind Madsen

University of South-Eastern Norway USN School of Business

Blerim Azizi

University of South-Eastern Norway

Albert Rushiti

University of South-Eastern Norway

Tonny Stenheim

Buskerud University College

Date Written: May 14, 2019

Abstract

The Balanced Scorecard (BSC) has over the last two and a half decades received much attention as a management model for both private and public sector organizations. However, the BSC concept’s use and application in local governments and municipalities remains relatively understudied. This is particularly the case for the Norwegian context. Therefore, the aim of this article is to conduct a descriptive analysis of the diffusion and implementation of the BSC in the Norwegian municipality sector. The article draws on two sources of data: (1) an electronic survey sent to all 428 municipalities in Norway, yielding a response rate of 26%, and (2) follow-up interviews with representatives from 15 municipalities. In the empirical analysis, the article first provides an overall overview of patterns related to the diffusion and implementation of the BSC in the Norwegian municipality sector. With respect to BSC diffusion and implementation, the data show that the BSC is still widely used among Norwegian municipalities and has not yet entered a clear downturn phase. With respect to adoption and implementation, a more fine-grained analysis of five categories of respondents (non-adopters, planners, implementers, current users, ex-users) is also carried out, focusing on the motives, perceptions and applications of the concept. The analysis reveals considerable variation when it comes to perceptions and experiences associated with BSC adoption and implementation.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard; management concept; diffusion; implementation; adoption; municipalities; local government

Suggested Citation:

Madsen, Dag Øivind and Azizi, Blerim and Rushiti, Albert and Stenheim, Tonny, The Diffusion and Implementation of the Balanced Scorecard in the Norwegian Municipality Sector: A Descriptive Analysis (May 14, 2019). Social Sciences, 2019, 8(5), 152; DOI/10.3390/socsci8050152, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3532404
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
102 References
Abdel-Kader , Souad Magdy , Erkki K Moufty , Laitinen
Balanced Scorecard Development: A Review of Literature and Directions for Furture Research
Review of Management Accounting Research Posted: 2011
Crossref
Eric Abrahamson
Managerial fads and fashions: The diffusion and rejection of innovations
Academy of Management Review , volume 16 , p. 586 - 612 Posted: 1991
Crossref
Eric Abrahamson
Management Fashion. Academy of Management Review , volume 21 , p. 254 - 85 Posted: 1996
Crossref
Jenny Andersson , Petra Ericsson
Diffusion av balanserat styrkort i offfentlig sektor-en studie av adopterande og icke-adopterande kommuner Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,010
RANK
747,544
102 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Strategy & Organizational Behavior eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies