Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34 on Municipal Audit Fees

Allen, Arthur and George Sanders, “The Effect of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34 on Municipal Audit Fees.” Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting, Vol. 12, pp. 215-232, 2009

Posted: 19 Mar 2020

Arthur C. Allen

Univ. of Nebraska - Lincoln

George Sanders

Western Washington University

Date Written: 2009

Abstract

We examined the change in audit fees after adoption of GASB 34 for a sample of 350 cities, correcting for audit fee inflation unrelated to GASB 34. We found that the mean (median) fee change for 2002 adopters was 4.9 (2.9) percentage points higher than for non-adopters. The mean (median) fee increase for 2003 adopters, smaller cities, was 11.6% (8.6%) over the non-adoption year fee increase. Overall, we found that the adoption of Statement 34 increased mean (median) fees approximately 9% (5%) for all cities, but that the effect was significantly larger for small cities. Overall, we documented an increase in fees associated with adoption that is both statistically and practically significant.

Keywords: GASB 34, Audit Fees

Suggested Citation:

Allen, Arthur C. and Sanders, George, The Effect of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34 on Municipal Audit Fees (2009). Allen, Arthur and George Sanders, “The Effect of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34 on Municipal Audit Fees.” Research in Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting, Vol. 12, pp. 215-232, 2009, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542906
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
573
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies