Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Accountability and Financial Reporting: Are Two Reporting Models Better Than One?

Posted: 6 Mar 2020

Won Jung Kim

California State Unversity, Sacramento

Date Written: February 21, 2020

Abstract

The primary goals of financial reporting for U.S. state governments are to provide useful information for assessing whether governments’ fiscal performance over the short term and the operational effectiveness of governmental activities with a longer-term perspective are met. To meet these dual objectives, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) requires state governments to prepare two sets of financial statements: one prepared under a full-accrual-basis accounting and the other prepared using a modified-accrual-basis. The GASB contends that providing both sets of statements increases the overall informativeness of governmental reports. Using hand-collected data from the 50 U.S. state governments from 2002 to 2015, this paper provides empirical evidence on the contexts under which the two financial reporting models provide information that is either redundant or incrementally useful. I show that, on average, (1) both full- and modified-accrual-basis financial statements similarly explain current outcomes and predict future outcomes associated with the welfare of citizens (measured as gross state product, personal disposable income, and unemployment), and (2) full-accrual-basis financial statements better explain and predict current and future credit risk. These findings support the GASB’s conjecture that full-accrual-basis financial statements provide more useful information to creditors. They do not, however, support the conjecture that modified-accrual-basis financial statements provide incrementally useful information about either credit risk or citizens’ welfare.

Keywords: public accountability, GASB Statement No. 34, state governments, accrual accounting, modified accrual accounting

JEL Classification: H71, H72, H83, M48

Suggested Citation:

Kim, Won Jung, Government Accountability and Financial Reporting: Are Two Reporting Models Better Than One? (February 21, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3542038
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
672
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies