Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Underinvestment and Slow Growth: PWBM Concedes Flaws

MIchael Simkovic, Underinvestment and Slow Growth: PWBM Concedes Flaws, 167 Tax Notes Federal 449 (2020).

USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS20-20

USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 20-20

15 Pages Posted: 12 Jun 2020 Last revised: 8 Dec 2020

Michael Simkovic

University of Southern California Gould School of Law; University of Southern California - Marshall School of Business; European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)

Date Written: December 7, 2020

Abstract

The U.S. economy is growing more slowly than it can and should be growing because it does not invest enough in infrastructure, science, and education. There is an important procedural obstacle to funding public investments — a process of scoring the economic effect of legislation. This process is driven by assumptions that are biased in favor of low taxes and against public investment. This budget scoring process systematically underestimates the benefits of public investment and systematically overstates the costs of taxation and debt. The power of the budget scoring process to derail legislation that would fund public investment is amplified by a think tank, the Penn Wharton Budget Model (PWBM). The PWBM assumes that taxes and debt have devastating effects on economic growth and assumes away much of the benefit of public investment. These strong assumptions are not consistent with the breadth of estimates in relevant empirical literature.

The director of the PWBM, Kent A. Smetters, recently responded to criticisms. This article summarizes the original critique of flaws in the PWBM analysis and discusses PWBM’s response (or non-response) to each substantive point. Readers may wish to review the original critique before proceeding.

For the original critique, see: Michael Simkovic, Biased Budget Scoring and Underinvestment, 166 Tax Notes Federal 757 (2020), https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3539734.

Keywords: Tax, Taxation, Taxes, Public Investment, Education, Science, Infrastructure, Wealth Taxes, Economic Growth, Congressional Budget Office, Dynamic Scoring, CBO, Penn Wharton Budget Model, PWBM, GDP Growth, GDP, Growth, Budget Scoring, Fly-Paper Effect

JEL Classification: H2, H21, H23, H24, H3, H4, H42, H43, H5, H52, H54, H6, H61, H68, H75, H76, H83, I25, I26, I28, E1, E

Suggested Citation:

Simkovic, Michael, Underinvestment and Slow Growth: PWBM Concedes Flaws (December 7, 2020). MIchael Simkovic, Underinvestment and Slow Growth: PWBM Concedes Flaws, 167 Tax Notes Federal 449 (2020). , USC CLASS Research Paper No. CLASS20-20, USC Law Legal Studies Paper No. 20-20, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3604333
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
13 References
The 2016 Long-Term Budget Outlook Posted: 2016
Jonathan Huntley
In its analyses, CBO uses a range of estimates to reflect the high degree of uncertainty involving the magnitude of those offsets. On the basis of results published in the empirical literature, CBO concludes that for each dollar's increase in the federal deficit, the effect on investment ranges from a decrease of 15 cents to a decrease of 50 cents
The Long-Run Effects of Federal Budget Deficits on National Saving and Private Domestic Investment Posted: 2014
Smetters
Simkovic's main point argues
the implied savings elasticity is infinite in the after-tax return
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
124
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,325
RANK
527,931
13 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Southern California Legal Studies Research Paper Series

Follow

University of Southern California Center for Law & Social Science (CLASS) Law & Economics Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies