Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditor or Adviser? Auditor (In)Dependence and Its Impact on Financial Management

41 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2020

Lang Kate Yang

George Washington University - Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration

Date Written: June 8, 2020

Abstract

Fiscal transparency entails government financial reporting and independent audits. This study postulates and tests the dual functions of external auditors: an examiner who assesses government compliance with accounting rules and an adviser who supplements government financial management capacity. Computational text analyses show that localities, especially those with lower financial management capacity, are likely to adopt similar languages in summarizing the governments’ financial conditions if they share the same auditor, suggesting auditor input in government disclosure. The auditor advisory role intensifies with a longer tenure. Further analyses show that auditor tenure is positively associated with the timeliness of audited financial reports. On the other hand, a long tenure reduces the likelihood of auditors identifying internal control deficiencies and thus points to accountability concerns. These findings highlight the importance of government capacity building in fiscal transparency initiatives and the unique challenges to auditor independence in the public sector.

Keywords: transparency, accountability, government capacity, financial audit, auditor independence

JEL Classification: H77, H83, M42

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Lang Kate, Auditor or Adviser? Auditor (In)Dependence and Its Impact on Financial Management (June 8, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3622184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3622184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
51 References
Eick Abdo , Llp Meyers
Management Letter to Prior Lake Fire Relief Association, for Fiscal year ended on December 31 Posted: 2014-06-12
James Alt , David Lassen
Fiscal Transparency, Political Parties, and Debt in OECD Countries
European Economic Review , volume 50 , issue 6 , p. 1403 - 1442 Posted: 2006-08
Crossref
Rhys Andrews , George Boyne
Capacity, Leadership, and Organizational Performance: Testing the Black Box Model of Public Management
Public Administration Review , volume 70 , issue 3 , p. 443 - 54 Posted: 2010-05
Crossref
L Babcock , G Loewenstein , S Issacharoff , C Camerer
Biased judgments of fairness in bargaining
American Economic Review , volume 85 , issue 5 , p. 1337 - 1343 Posted: 1995
Load more
1 Citations
Baridhi Malakar
Fiduciary Duty in the Municipal Bonds Market
Accepted at the Municipal Finance Journal · 62 Pages · Posted: 18 Jun 2023 · Last revised: 18 Jul 2025 · Downloads: 115
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
82
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
RANK
702,914
1 Citations
51 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies