Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forecasting the New England States’ Tax Revenues in the Time of the Covid-19 Pandemic

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Research Paper Series Current Policy Perspectives Paper No. 88356

15 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2020 Last revised: 23 Jun 2022

Bo Zhao

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston

Date Written: July, 2020

Abstract

State governments across the United States face the prospect of sharply declining tax revenues due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They need reliable and up-to-date revenue forecasts to make financially sound policy decisions during this public health and economic crisis. This paper proposes an objective, transparent, simple, and efficient method to forecast state tax revenues in this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. The model is based on only two input factors: the state unemployment rate and an empirically determined time trend. The predictions from the model closely track the actual values of tax revenues for the New England states over the past 25 years. Using this method, this paper forecasts state tax revenues for fiscal year 2021 and suggests large decreases in the New England states. The paper discusses policy options to address the expected declines in revenues and highlights the urgent need for more federal grants without tight strings attached.

Keywords: COVID-19, revenue forecasting, state tax revenues, NEPPC

JEL Classification: C22, C53, H71

Suggested Citation:

Zhao, Bo, Forecasting the New England States’ Tax Revenues in the Time of the Covid-19 Pandemic (July, 2020). Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Research Paper Series Current Policy Perspectives Paper No. 88356, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3648649
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
2 References
Estimating the Shortfall in Massachusetts Tax Revenue
Donald J Boyd , Lucy Dadayan , Robert B Ward
States' Revenue Estimating: Cracks in the Crystal Ball. The Pew Center on the States and the Nelson A Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
264
ABSTRACT VIEWS
905
RANK
264,566
2 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Crises eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies