Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Individual Auditor Characteristics and Audit Quality: Evidence From Nonprofits in the U.S.

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1108/JPBAFM-10-2019-0157

Posted: 19 Oct 2020

Nancy Chun Feng

Suffolk University

Date Written: July 25, 2020

Abstract

Using a sample of U.S. nonprofit organizations, where the identity of the auditor in charge of the audit is revealed, I investigate whether individual auditor characteristics (gender, engagement load, and tenure) are associated with audit quality. The empirical results show that female auditors are more likely to report internal control deficiencies (ICDs) and issue qualified audit opinions (QAOs) to nonprofits. I also find that auditors with more Single Audit engagements within the same year are less likely to report ICDs. In addition, auditor tenure is negatively associated with the likelihood of issuing an ICD report, suggesting that auditors become complacent as the length of the auditor-client relationship lengthens or, alternatively, that they are better able to assist their clients in correcting ICDs and in maintaining stronger internal control environments as they gain client-specific knowledge over time. In additional analyses, I use subsamples partitioned by client risk and audit firm size, and find that individual auditor characteristics generally play a more significant role in the issuance of ICDs and QAOs for riskier clients than for less risky clients. Additional analysis suggests tenure and engagement load results are sensitive to the sample specification employed.

Keywords: Audit Quality, Qualified Audit Opinions, Individual Auditor Characteristics, Internal Control Deficiency, Nonprofit Audit

JEL Classification: M41, M42

Suggested Citation:

Feng, Nancy Chun, Individual Auditor Characteristics and Audit Quality: Evidence From Nonprofits in the U.S. (July 25, 2020). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Forthcoming https://doi.org/10.1108/JPBAFM-10-2019-0157, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3660570
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies