Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategic Reporting by Nonprofit Hospitals: An Examination of Bad Debt and Charity Care

Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 11 Sep 2020 Last revised: 6 Aug 2021

Amanda Beck

Georgia State University

Collin Gilstrap

University of Toledo

Jordan Rippy

Johns Hopkins University - Carey Business School

Brian Vansant

Auburn University - Raymond J. Harbert College of Business - School of Accountancy

Date Written: July 31, 2020

Abstract

In this paper, we examine bad debt and charity care reporting by nonprofit hospitals around bond issuance. Given the tax advantages afforded to nonprofit hospitals, including the ability to issue tax-exempt debt, hospital managers encounter stakeholder pressure to provide community benefits. When nonprofits issue debt, they also face economic pressure to meet creditors’ financial performance expectations. We document a reporting strategy that allows nonprofit hospitals to reduce the cost of bond debt while simultaneously alleviating regulators’ and community members’ concerns about inadequate provision of charity care. Using data from public bond issues for California nonprofit hospitals, we find that hospital managers shift costs from bad debt expense to charity care in periods prior to a public bond issuance and that the strategy is associated with a lower cost of debt. Our results inform those relying on accounting measurements to infer nonprofit hospitals’ social good provisions and financial health.

Keywords: Nonprofit hospital; Earnings Management; Charity Care; Tax Exempt Debt; Municipal Bond Market; Cost of Debt

Suggested Citation:

Beck, Amanda and Gilstrap, Collin and Rippy, Jordan and Vansant, Brian, Strategic Reporting by Nonprofit Hospitals: An Examination of Bad Debt and Charity Care (July 31, 2020). Review of Accounting Studies, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3664923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3664923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
American Hospital Association (AHA)
AHA Hospital Statistics Posted: 2017
Audit Guide of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Posted: 2017
G Bai , G Anderson
A more detailed understanding of factors associated with hospital profitability , volume 35 , p. 889 - 897 Posted: 2016
Crossref
G J Bazzoli , J P Clement , H M Hsieh
Community benefit activities of private, nonprofit hospitals
policy and law , volume 35 , issue 6 , p. 999 - 1026 Posted: 2010
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
190
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,266
RANK
366,257
1 Citations
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies