Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
To What Extent Do Governance, Government Funding and Chief Executive Officer Characteristics Influence Executive Compensation in UK Charities? Insights From the Social Theory of Agency

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 10 Oct 2020

Tam Nguyen

University of Nottingham

Teerooven Soobaroyen

University of Essex - Essex Business School

Date Written: August 20, 2020

Abstract

This paper draws on agency theory, as extended by the social theory of agency (STA) (Wiseman, Cuevas-Rodríguez & Gomez-Mejia, 2012), to examine the association between governance arrangements, reliance on government funding, chief executive officer (CEO) non-profit experience, and CEO compensation in the UK charity sector. We rely on a hand-collected data for the largest 240 charities and find that greater trustee board diversity (specifically gender and education diversity) and the existence of a remuneration or nomination committee are positively associated to CEO compensation. The results also show that a reliance on government funding and CEO’s non-profit work experience, together with the presence of a finance/accounting expert on the audit committee are negatively associated with CEO compensation. The existence of an audit committee, internal audit function, use of specialist external auditor and CEO characteristics (gender, ethnicity and managerial experience) are not significant factors. Our findings are largely consistent with the STA’s propositions. Specifically, executive compensation levels reflect the CEO’s ability to work with a diverse board while a higher reliance on government funding signals the role of the State’s pressures in moderating CEO compensation. Finally, in a context characterized by altruism and public benefit, financial rewards are not seen as the dominant ‘value metric’, resulting in lower compensation for CEOs previously working in the sector. Our findings have policy implications, specifically in relation to the role, composition and effectiveness of governance structures (e.g. trustee boards, audit and remuneration committees) in overseeing the design of executive compensation schemes within the charity sector.

Keywords: CEO Compensation; Charity Governance; Board Diversity; CEO Characteristics; Social Theory of Agency

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Nguyen, Tam and Soobaroyen, Teerooven, To What Extent Do Governance, Government Funding and Chief Executive Officer Characteristics Influence Executive Compensation in UK Charities? Insights From the Social Theory of Agency (August 20, 2020). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3678167
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
549
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Compensation of Executives & Directors eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies