Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dynamic Sales Tax Competition: Evidence from Panel Data at the Border

FRB of Boston Working Paper No. 20-5

38 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2020 Last revised: 18 Mar 2022

Melissa Gentry

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Nadia Greenhalgh-Stanley

Kent State University

Shawn M. Rohlin

Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) - Department of Economics

Jeffrey P. Thompson

New England Public Policy Center, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston

Date Written: March, 2020

Abstract

We examine both vertical and horizontal tax competition over time by studying the strategic response of county sales taxation to state sales taxes and to cross-border neighboring municipalities’ combined (state and county) taxes. Using county and state sales tax data from 2003 through 2009, we employ both static and dynamic panel analysis as well as an instrumental variables approach in combination with a border analysis. Our results confirm the presence of tax competition in the cross section, as previous studies have found. Results from the fixed-effects and dynamic panel analysis also indicate the presence of vertical competition, though quite small, as counties are consistently responsive to changes in their own state sales tax level across all models and specifications. However, the panel findings suggest little to no horizontal tax competition. Following Parchet (2019), we address additional concerns about endogeneity by instrumenting the neighboring-county sales tax rate with the state-level sales tax rate of the neighboring state. Results from instrumental variables analysis reinforce the presence of a small vertical tax competition between local and state sales tax policies. Interestingly, our results, like those of Parchet (2019), indicate that cross-border local sales tax rates act as strategic substitutes.

Keywords: tax competition, sales taxation, border approach

JEL Classification: H2, H7

Suggested Citation:

Gentry, Melissa and Greenhalgh-Stanley, Nadia and Rohlin, Shawn M. and Thompson, Jeffrey P., Dynamic Sales Tax Competition: Evidence from Panel Data at the Border (March, 2020). FRB of Boston Working Paper No. 20-5, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3682689 or http://dx.doi.org/10.29412/res.wp.2020.05
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
38 References
David R Agrawal
LOST in America: Evidence on Local Sales Taxes from National Panel Data
Regional Science and Urban Economics , volume 49 , p. 147 - 163 Posted: 2014
David R Agrawal
The Tax Gradient: Spatial Aspects of Fiscal Competition
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 7 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 29 Posted: 2015
David Agrawal
Local Fiscal Competition: An Application to Sales Taxation with Multiple Federations
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 91 , p. 122 - 138 Posted: 2016
David R Agrawal , William H Hoyt
Commuting and Taxes: Theory, Empirics, and Welfare Implications
The Economic Journal , volume 128 , issue 616 , p. 2969 - 3007 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
126
ABSTRACT VIEWS
480
RANK
517,938
38 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies