Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Real Effects of Governmental Accounting Standards: Evidence from GASB Statement No. 53 - Accounting and Financial Reporting for Derivative Instruments

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

40 Pages Posted: 24 Oct 2020

Saleha Khumawala

University of Houston - C.T. Bauer College of Business

Tharindra Ranasinghe

American University

Claire J. Yan

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Rutgers Business School at Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: September 5, 2020

Abstract

GASB Statement No. 53, Accounting and Financial Reporting for Derivative Instruments, (GASB 53) significantly altered U.S. governmental sector accounting of derivative instruments by mandating the recognition of hitherto off-balance sheet derivative instruments in the government-wide statement of net assets and requiring that ineffective hedges be clearly identified. These requirements have an unfavorable financial statement impact for municipalities with net negative fair value derivative positions and municipalities holding ineffective hedges. Using a hand-collected, comprehensive dataset of municipal derivatives, we examine whether the level of U.S. municipal derivative holdings changed following the adoption of GASB 53. Consistent with GASB 53 affecting municipal officials’ derivative decisions, we find a significant post-GASB 53 reduction in derivative holdings for municipalities with net negative fair value derivative positions and ineffective hedges. Our findings suggest that governmental accounting regulations could affect real decisions of municipal officials and therefore could potentially have public policy implications beyond the provision of information to stakeholders.

Keywords: Governmental Accounting, GASB 53, Derivatives, Hedging, Real Effects of Financial Accounting

JEL Classification: G32, G38, H70, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Khumawala, Saleha and Ranasinghe, Tharindra and Yan, Claire J., Real Effects of Governmental Accounting Standards: Evidence from GASB Statement No. 53 - Accounting and Financial Reporting for Derivative Instruments (September 5, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3687108 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3687108
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
31 References
A S Ahmed , E Kilic , G J Lobo
Does recognition versus disclosure matter? Evidence from value-relevance of banks' recognized and disclosed derivative financial instruments
The Accounting Review , volume 81 , issue 3 , p. 567 - 588 Posted: 2006
Crossref
E Amir , Y Guan , D Oswald
The effect of pension accounting on corporate pension asset allocation
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 15 , issue 2 , p. 345 - 366 Posted: 2010
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore
Consequences of GAAP disclosure regulation: Evidence from municipal debt issues
The Accounting Review , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 565 - 592 Posted: 2008
Crossref
W R Baber , A K Gore , K T Rich , J X Zhang
Accounting restatements, governance and municipal debt financing
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 56 , issue 2 , p. 212 - 227 Posted: 2013
Crossref
Load more
1 Citations
Won Jung Kim , Marlene A. Plumlee , Stephen Stubben
Overview of U.S. State and Local Government Financial Reporting: A Reference for Academic Research
52 Pages · Posted: 21 Dec 2018 · Last revised: 17 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 548
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
141
ABSTRACT VIEWS
998
RANK
472,791
1 Citations
31 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies