Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Audit and Fund Misappropriation in the Public Sector of Nigeria

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.11, No.16, 2020

7 Pages Posted: 27 Oct 2020

Promise Nkak

Niger Delta University (NDU) - Department of Accounting

Date Written: September 9, 2020

Abstract

The preceding unusual in the financial activities of the government revealed by the auditor-general on the financial health of the country has drawn the attention of the public of the wrongdoing and audit queries observed the audit. The study investigated the roles of internal audit in the misappropriation of public funds. Primary data was our main source of data and structured questionnaire was designed to collate data from the audit and account department of the selected ministries. The descriptive statistics and least square regression analysis was used to test the hypotheses premise. From the analytical output, our study found that Effectiveness of Internal Audit (EIA) is negatively statistical not significant with the misappropriation of funds (MF) in the public sector. On the other hand, Internal Control System (ICS) was positive and statistically significant which implies that an efficient internal control system help to fight against misappropriation of funds in public place. Our study recommended that management and top executives saddle running an entity/managerial function should upgrade the competency of the audit/account department personnel for proper effective internal control Audit system in other to avoid the misappropriation of resources; There should be a good feedback mechanism and whistle blowing system.

Keywords: Misappropriation, Internal Audit, Internal Control System, Public Sector

JEL Classification: J47

Suggested Citation:

Nkak, Promise, Internal Audit and Fund Misappropriation in the Public Sector of Nigeria (September 9, 2020). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.11, No.16, 2020 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3689967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
R A Adams
Public Sector Accounting and Finance Posted: 2004
A A Adeniyi
Auditing and Investigations Wyse Associates Limited Posted: 2011
M S Badara
The role of internal auditors in ensuring effective financial control at local government level , volume 3 Posted: 2012
Financial regulations (Revised) , volume 72 , p. 106 - 124 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
606
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,985
RANK
101,895
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies