Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analyses of Formula-Based Intergovernmental Transfer Using A Comprehensive Model

Fiorillo Fabio and Merkaj Elvina 'A Comprehensive Approach to Intergovernmental Grants’ Tactical Allocation. Theory And Estimation Guidelines', submitted to International Tax and Public Finance (2020)

24 Pages Posted: 13 Nov 2020 Last revised: 5 Mar 2021

Elvina Merkaj

Polytechnic University of Marche - Faculty of Economics

Fabio Fiorillo

Polytechnic University of Marche - Faculty of Economics

Edvin Zhllima

Agriculture University of Tirana

Drini Imami

Agriculture University of Tirana

Date Written: September 24, 2020

Abstract

In this paper we analyze the tactics used by the central government during the allocation of grants toward local governments, by implementing the guidelines of the comprehensive model of Fiorillo and Merkaj (FM’s model) (2020)*. We apply the model to investigate a formula-based unconditional grant in a post-socialist economy, namely Albania, by assuming the value of three key structural parameters of the model. Using panel data for the period 2004-2011, we find that in Albania although the central government appears to follow the principles of equity and efficiency, political and electoral objectives of the incumbents do influence the allocation of transfers. Results confirm the predictions of the FM model: in a country with weak local government, where central government is perceived as the true policy maker even of local policies, in the presence of a proportional electoral rule, the incumbent tends to shape tactical allocation in favour of supporters.



*Fiorillo Fabio and Merkaj Elvina "A Comprehensive Approach to Intergovernmental Grants’ Tactical Allocation. Theory And Estimation Guidelines", submitted to International Tax and Public Finance (2020)

Keywords: formula-based intergovernmental transfers; Albania; empirical application of Fiorillo-Merkaj’s guideline

JEL Classification: H77

Suggested Citation:

Merkaj, Elvina and Fiorillo, Fabio and Zhllima, Edvin and Imami, Drini, An Analyses of Formula-Based Intergovernmental Transfer Using A Comprehensive Model (September 24, 2020). Fiorillo Fabio and Merkaj Elvina 'A Comprehensive Approach to Intergovernmental Grants’ Tactical Allocation. Theory And Estimation Guidelines', submitted to International Tax and Public Finance (2020), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3698163 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3698163
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
J E Alt , D D Lassen
Transparency, Political Polarization, and Political Budget Cycles in OECD Countries
American Journal of Political Science , volume 50 , issue 3 , p. 530 - 550 Posted: 2006
Crossref
W Arulampalam , S Dasgupta , A Dhillon , B Dutta
Electoral goals and center-state transfers: A theoretical model and empirical evidence from India
Journal of Development Economics Posted: 2009
Crossref
A B Banful
Do formula-based intergovernmental transfer mechanisms eliminate politically motivated targeting? Evidence from Ghana
Journal of Development Economics Posted: 2011
Crossref
R Bird , F Vaillancourt
Expenditure-Based Equalization Transfers
Fiscal Equalization , p. 259 - 289 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
74
ABSTRACT VIEWS
927
RANK
747,544
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Law, Institutions & Economic Development eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies