Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Evolution of a Public Sector Audit Office: Evidence From the Republic of Fiji

Nath, N, Van Peursem, KA and Lowe, A. (2020 forthcoming). Evolution of a public sector audit office: Evidence from the Republic of Fiji. Financial Accountability & Management Journal.

Posted: 17 Dec 2020

Nirmala D. Nath

Massey University

Karen Van-Peursem

Victoria University of Wellington

Alan Lowe

School of Accounting; Aston University - Aston Business School - Finance and Accounting Group

Date Written: October 20, 2020

Abstract

The Office of the Auditor General, Republic of Fiji was founded in 1970 on audit principles and national laws inspired by its former British colonial power. The Fijian Office operates within a challenging national context however of coup-determined regimes, military authority and ethnically-dividing social practices. The purpose of this study is to uncover the processes and dynamics that explain how this Office remains a stable institution despite this challenging context. We seek to understand how members of Fiji’s Office of the Auditor General comprehend their role, find meaning in their actions and negotiate their authority in the context of powerful others. Our approach is qualitative and employs historical documents and data from 28 interviews conducted over 12 years. Our findings take into account wider social processes and reveal that through the empowerment of international associationism the Office of the Auditor General comes to absorb the norms and values of its westernized professional organizations. The contribution of the study is in revealing how external professional bodies and an empowering internalized rationale can construct an institutional discourse that offers the potential for social action even where local resistance is strong.

Keywords: Public Sector Audit, Audit Office, Fiji, Institutionalism, Power

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Nath, Nirmala D. and Van-Peursem, Karen and Lowe, Alan, Evolution of a Public Sector Audit Office: Evidence From the Republic of Fiji (October 20, 2020). Nath, N, Van Peursem, KA and Lowe, A. (2020 forthcoming). Evolution of a public sector audit office: Evidence from the Republic of Fiji. Financial Accountability & Management Journal. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3715932
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
433
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies