Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategy Execution in Public Administration – A Case Study

7 Pages Posted: 2 Dec 2020

Rainer Lueg

Leuphana University of Lueneburg - Department of Accounting, Business & Management; University of Southern Denmark - Department of Accounting, Business & Management

Date Written: December 01, 2019

Abstract

Strategy execution has advanced to the area of not-for-profit, hybrid, as well as government organizations. The Balanced Scorecard (BSC) is a Strategic Performance Management System (SPMS) that lays a distinct focus on aligning strategic initiatives with non-financial indicators. This case study of a city hall addresses behavioral resistance against SPMS, as well as several technical pitfalls in its implementation. The target audience are experiences students, and the didactic approach is a flipped classroom. Students are being presented with solutions that intuitively make sense, but have severe flaws once they check the consistency of these suggestions with the theoretical concepts and the empirical evidence of the listed sources.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard; Strategy map; resistance to accounting change; implementation process; performance management; flipped classroom

JEL Classification: M10

Suggested Citation:

Lueg, Rainer, Strategy Execution in Public Administration – A Case Study (December 01, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3717522 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3717522
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
O A Albertsen , R Lueg
The Balanced Scorecard's missing link to compensation: a literature review and an agenda for future research
Journal of Accounting and Organizational Change , volume 10 , issue 4 , p. 431 - 465 Posted: 2014
C V Andersen , R Lueg
Management Control Systems, culture and upper echelons -A systematic literature review on their interactions
Corporate Ownership & Control , volume 14 , issue 2 , p. 312 - 325 Posted: 2017
Crossref
A Atkinson , R Kaplan , E Matsumura , M Young
Management accounting: information for decision making and strategy execution
Pearson Education Posted: 2011
S M Datar , M V Rajan
Horngren's Cost Accounting: A Managerial Emphasis Posted: 2018
Load more
12 Citations
Rainer Lueg
Profitability analyses for segments and customers – A case study
6 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 44
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rainer Lueg
Value-based Management and Ethics in wholesale foods – A case study
7 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 149
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rainer Lueg
Transfer pricing in the recycling industry – A case study
8 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 94
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Rainer Lueg
Target costing in electronics manufacturing – A case study
6 Pages · Posted: 11 Jun 2021 · Downloads: 375
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
169
ABSTRACT VIEWS
969
RANK
405,251
12 Citations
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies