Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Examining the Usability of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report’s MD&A using Textual Analytics

40 Pages Posted: 12 Feb 2021 Last revised: 9 Nov 2021

Xinxin Wang

Sacred Heart University; Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Mauricio Mello Codesso

Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Hussein Issa

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Date Written: November 2, 2020

Abstract

[This research collected the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) of different municipalities within New York State and analyzed the usability of the Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) using textual analysis method. Considering the previous studies of the listed company MD&A section and the evaluation of the usability of financial information, this study measures the usability of the CAFRs from the perspectives of timeliness, readability and usefulness. The results show that the usability of CAFR’s MD&A is very low, due to the length of issue period, its difficulty for the public to understand as well as their similarity from year to year. We suggest the municipalities increase the usability of their Reports by including a more detailed discussion and in-depth analysis in the MD&A. Most importantly, we suggest that municipalities provide machine-readable financial information to the public. Abstract Body]

Keywords: Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR), MD&A, New York States, Municipality, textual analysis, usability, timeliness, readability, usefulness

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xinxin and Mello Codesso, Mauricio and Issa, Hussein, Examining the Usability of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report’s MD&A using Textual Analytics (November 2, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3723923 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3723923
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
E M Bamber , L S Bamber , M P Schoderbek
Audit Structure and Other Determinants of Audit Report Lag: An Empirical Analysis
Auditing: A Journal of Practice , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 1993
New, Expanded Municipal Bond Audit Timing Study Shows Little Change from Previous Years Posted: 2012
R H Attmore
The Importance of Timely Government Financial Reporting
JOURNAL OF GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT , p. 8 - 10 Posted: 2011
R Bloch
Assessing the Impact of GASB Statement No. 34: The Perceptions of Municipal Bond Analysts
Municipal finance journal Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
234
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,077
RANK
298,527
2 Citations
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies