Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Control Mechanisms in the Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs): a Comparison Between Brazil and Portugal

Fontes-Filho, J. & Alves, C. (2018) Control Mechanisms in the Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs): a Comparison Between Brazil and Portugal, Cadernos EBAPE.BR, Vol. 6, No. 1, 1-13

13 Pages Posted: 29 Dec 2020

Carlos F. Alves

University of Porto - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: November 28, 2017

Abstract

This study aims to identify how external and internal control mechanisms of corporate governance, typically used in the private business sector, are applied or transformed for the public sector in state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Based on a review of the agency problem and the mechanisms proposed for its mitigation in the business context, the study analyzes the governance situation of SOEs in Brazil and Portugal, with a view to comparing the solutions adopted in the two countries and the needs for development. In addition to sharing common history and cultural foundations, these countries are characterized by a low investor security environment and fragility of dispute settlement mechanisms; by concentrated ownership structures; and by capital markets still insufficient to pressure corporate behavior, conditions which weaken the market mechanisms of external control and amplify the influence of the peculiarities of SOEs’ internal governance issues. The analyses point to significant recent advances in SOEs’ governance practices, but identify challenges yet to be addressed.

Keywords: State-Owned Enterprises, Corporate Governance, Control Mechanisms, Brazil, Portugal

Suggested Citation:

Alves, Carlos Francisco Ferreira, Control Mechanisms in the Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs): a Comparison Between Brazil and Portugal (November 28, 2017). Fontes-Filho, J. & Alves, C. (2018) Control Mechanisms in the Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs): a Comparison Between Brazil and Portugal, Cadernos EBAPE.BR, Vol. 6, No. 1, 1-13 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3731389
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Ebape Cad , Br
, volume 16 Posted: 2018-03
Crossref
S Abranches
Presidencialismo de coalizão: o dilema institucional brasileiro. Dados, v. 31, n. 1 , p. 5 - 38 Posted: 1988
A Agrawal , C R Knoeber
Firm performance and mechanisms to control agency problems between managers and shareholders
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , issue 3 , p. 377 - 397 Posted: 1996
Crossref
M Becht , P Bolton , A Röell , G M Constantinides , M Harris , R M Stulz
Handbook of the Economics of Finance , p. 1 - 109 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
511
RANK
864,457
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies