Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Balanced Scorecard – Analysis of Theoretical and Applied Solution

62nd International Scientific Conference on Economic and Social Development - Lisbon, 19-20 November, 2020

10 Pages Posted: 3 Feb 2021

Venelin Terziev

Trakia University

Marin Georgiev

Kaneff University Hospital

Olga Andreeva

Rostov State University of Economics

Date Written: November 19, 2020

Abstract

Balanced scorecard (BSC) is a practical tool helping organizations to implement their business strategy. Each perspective requires setting strategic goals, criteria and action plans. The continuous process of BSC development is focused on combining four and more perspectives. The balanced scorecard focuses the efforts of the reviewed organization on the critical the analysis of future and its binding with the meaning of the ideal.

Keywords: Balanced Scorecard, Performance Measurement, Strategic Management, Control, Organization

JEL Classification: O00L M00

Suggested Citation:

Terziev, Venelin and Georgiev, Marin and Andreeva, Olga, Balanced Scorecard – Analysis of Theoretical and Applied Solution (November 19, 2020). 62nd International Scientific Conference on Economic and Social Development - Lisbon, 19-20 November, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3735895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3735895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
21 References
R Kaplan , D Norton
The Balanced Scorecard: Measures that Drive Performance
Harvard Business Review Posted: 1992
M Treacy , F Wiersema
The Discipline of Market Leaders Posted: 1995
H Goldenberg , J Hoffecker
Using the Balanced Scorecard to develop Companywide Performance Measures
Journal of Cost Management Posted: 1994
T Johnson , R Kaplan
Relevance Lost: the rise and fall of Management Accounting
HBSP Posted: 1987
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
270
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
RANK
258,355
4 Citations
21 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Policies & Processes eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies