Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Description of the Implementation of PSAK 45 and ISAK 35 in Mosque Financial Reporting Accounting

8 Pages Posted: 6 Jan 2021

Danil Latief

Hasanuddin University

SE Haliah

Hasanuddin University

SE Nirwana

Hasanuddin University

Date Written: December 5, 2020

Abstract

Mosques are non-profit organizations in the religious sector. Mosque institutions must and have the right to make responsible financial reports and report to users of mosque institutional financial reports. This study provides an overview of the application of PSAK 45 and ISAK 35 in mosque financial reporting. The results of the application of IAS 45 and Interpretation of SFAS 35 second reporting standards have almost no difference, especially in the financial statements only in ISAK 35 m emperhatikan persyartaan minimum content of financial statements in IAS 1 then d apat menyesuaiakan description of some pis, d apat menyesuaiak a n a description of the report finance: report title, considering the relevant facts so as not to reduce the quality of the information presented and the addition of LRA financial reports is possible as long as it is explained in the accounting policy there are regulatory references, in this case assumptions and what is managed by the mosque is much more complex in its sources and uses. Based on the descriptions regarding the reporting standards of PSAK 45 and ISAK 35, the two reporting standards can be used in the preparation of mosque financial reports, although many mosques still use simple reports.

Keywords: PSAK 45, ISAK 35, Financial Reporting, Non-Profit Organization, Mosque

JEL Classification: H83

Suggested Citation:

Latief, Danil and Haliah, SE and Nirwana, SE, Description of the Implementation of PSAK 45 and ISAK 35 in Mosque Financial Reporting Accounting (December 5, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743296 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743296
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
5 References
Indra Bastian
Interpretasi Standar Akuntansi Keuangan (ISAK) No. 35 tentang penyajian Laporan Keuangan Entitas Berorientasi Nonlaba.Jakarta: IFAC Nainggolan, P, 2012. Akuntansi Keuangan Yayasan dan Lembaga Nonlaba Sejenis. Jakarta: Grafindo Ikatan Akuntansi Indonesia. 2011. Pernyataan Standar Akuntansi Keuangan Posted: 2011
Ikatan Akuntansi Indonesia
Pernyataan Standar Akuntansi Keuangan Posted: 2013
Ikatan Akuntansi Indonesia
Pernyataan Standar Akuntansi Keuangan Posted: 2015
Ruci Rahayu , Arizanda
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
586
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,586
RANK
106,376
5 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies