Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role of Performance Audit in Public Sector Organization

9 Pages Posted: 11 Feb 2021

Dr. Haliah

Hasanuddin University

SE Nirwana

Hasanuddin University

Fasti Herianty Akhzan

Hasanuddin University

Date Written: December 4, 2020

Abstract

This study aimed to examine the role of performance audit in public sector organization by analyzing various literature on performance audit in public sector organization. Based on ground theory, performance audit has purpose to enhance performance and accountability hence the role of this audit is to enhance performance and accountability. Based on this premise, this study seeks for empirical studies that support this theory and analyze the impact of performance audit in public sector organization in several countries: Estonia, Indonesia, New Zealand, and Norway. Applying a methodology adapted from basic theory and literature review and the results of previous studies, this study further confirms that the role of public sector performance audits is to improve public performance and accountability. However, this role can only be realized when the performance audit that is carried out meets certain criteria, such as the quality of the audit and the quality of the audit report containing findings and recommendations where the quality is influenced by the audit team conducting the performance audit.

Keywords: performance audit, public accountability, sector public

JEL Classification: H83

Suggested Citation:

Haliah, Dr. and Nirwana, SE and Akhzan, Fasti Herianty, Role of Performance Audit in Public Sector Organization (December 4, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3743077 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3743077
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
10 References
Fauzia Darmanto , Kartika
The Impact of Corporate Governance, Performance Audit, and Government Accounting Standard in Indonesia to The Accountability of Karanganyar Government Posted: 2017
Kristin Kjennerud , Åge Reichborn , Johnsen
Performance Audits and Supreme Audit Institutions Impact on Public Administration: The Case of the Office of the Auditor General in Norway
Administration & Society: SAGE Journals Posted: 2016
Kristin Kjennerud , Reichborn , Signy Irene , Vabo
Performance audit as a contributor to change and improvement in public administration
Sage Journals , volume 23 , issue 1 , p. 6 - 23 Posted: 2017
Sunarti Mahmud , Abdul Wahid Mahsuni Dan , Junaidi
The Impact of Public Sector Performance Audit to Public Accountability with Functional Supervision as Moderating Variable: Empirical Study in SKPD Malang
Jurnal Ilmiah Riset Akuntansi Universitas Islam Malang , volume 6 , issue 10 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
925
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,659
RANK
58,261
10 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies