Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Size on Municipal Performance: A Panel Data Regression Analysis Estimated by Feasible Generalized Least Squares

26 Pages Posted: 19 Feb 2021

Filipy Sell

Federal University of Pará

Leonardo Flach

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC)

Luisa Karam de Mattos

Federal University of Santa Catarina

Date Written: December 16, 2020

Abstract

This research aims to show the direct and indirect effects of size on the performance of the municipalities of Santa Catarina, due to the academic discussion about the size of the municipality affecting its performance. All municipalities in the state of Santa Catarina, from 2005 to 2016, were analyzed, including three electoral periods. The sample includes 3,504 observations, with 293 municipalities, over a 12-year period. Panel data regression analysis was estimated by Feasible Generalized Least Squares (FGLS). The results indicate that the size affects directly and positively municipal performance and indirectly when associated with the mayor's level of education. Thus, in the municipalities of Santa Catarina, the larger the population, the greater it will be the IPTU collected per capita. Also, larger population size associated with higher educated mayors, the greater the municipal performance. When performance is measured by the percentage of IPTU collected from total tax revenue, there is no effect on the size and size associated with the mayor's ability to govern.

Keywords: size; performance; Public sector; counties.

JEL Classification: E60, E62, H00, H83, J38, J48

Suggested Citation:

Sell, Filipy and Flach, Leonardo and Mattos, Luisa Karam de, The Effects of Size on Municipal Performance: A Panel Data Regression Analysis Estimated by Feasible Generalized Least Squares (December 16, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3750381 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3750381
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
A Adhikari , C Derashid , H Zhang
Public policy, political connections, and effective tax rates: Longitudinal evidence from Malaysia
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 25 , issue 5 , p. 574 - 595 Posted: 2006
Crossref
K Anderson
What motivates municipal governments? Uncovering the institutional incentives for municipal governance of forest resources in Bolivia
Journal of Environment & Development , volume 12 , issue 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2003
Crossref
C N Avellaneda
Do Politics or Mayors' Demographics Matter for Municipal Revenue Expansion?
Public Management Review , volume 14 , issue 8 , p. 1061 - 1086 Posted: 2012
Crossref
C N Avellaneda
Municipal performance: does mayoral quality matter
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 19 , issue 2 , p. 285 - 312 Posted: 2009
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
262
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,361
RANK
266,546
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies