Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Predicting the Discontinuity of Non-Profit Organizations Using the Machine Learning Approach

40 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2021 Last revised: 18 Jul 2022

Xinxin Wang

Sacred Heart University; Rutgers Business School - Rutgers University

Heejae Lee

New Jersey Institute of Technology - Martin Tuchman School of Management; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey - Accounting & Information Systems

Richard Dull

West Virginia University - Department of Accounting and Management Information Systems

Date Written: February 5, 2021

Abstract

Non-Profit Organization worked as an important social sector, it contributed a lot to the economy, social welfare, and humanity services. In the United States, NPO usually defined as the organization granted tax-exempt status. The negative impacts of the discontinuity of NPOs reflected in the organizational, industrial, and economical levels. In this paper, we aimed to identify the financial indicators that predict the discontinuity of NPOs.

Keywords: NPO, Discontinuity, Machine Learning

Suggested Citation:

Wang, Xinxin and Lee, Heejae and Dull, Richard, Predicting the Discontinuity of Non-Profit Organizations Using the Machine Learning Approach (February 5, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3780096 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3780096
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
H A Alaka , L O Oyedele , H A Owolabi , V Kumar , S O Ajayi , O O Akinade , M Bila
Systematic review of bankruptcy prediction models: Towards a framework for tool selection
Expert Systems with Applications , volume 94 , p. 164 - 184 Posted: 2017
E I Altman
Financial ratios, discriminant analysis and the prediction of corporate bankruptcy
Journal of Finance , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 589 - 609 Posted: 1968-09
S Balcaen , H Ooghe
35 years of studies on business failure: an overview of the classic statistical methodologies and their related problems
The British Accounting Review , volume 38 , p. 63 - 93 Posted: 2006
F Barboza , H Kimura , E Altman
Machine learning models and bankruptcy prediction
Expert Systems With Applications , volume 83 , p. 405 - 417 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
851
RANK
549,043
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Artificial Intelligence eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies