Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Internal Transparency: Compliance and Punishment in the Brazilian Municipal Budget Process

29 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Gregory Michener

EBAPE/FGV

Date Written: February 11, 2020

Abstract

Much has been written about external transparency in the public sector. However, internal transparency – the inter and intra governmental disclosure of information – is commonly overlooked as an object of study. Underestimating the importance of internal transparency is surprising, as it is a determining factor for the coordination of public policies and the quality of democratic governance. This paper analyzes the short-and-long-term costs of failing to comply with internal transparency requirements linked to municipal budgets in general and education spending in particular. In this study, we employ mixed methods, quantitatively analyzing the short-term incentives to comply with education finance transparency requirements and, qualitatively, the future consequences of noncompliance. Results show that municipalities receiving the largest volume of voluntary transfers are more likely to meet internal transparency requirements; however, the costs of not fulfilling such requirements are low and easily reversible in the short-term. In the long-term, municipal officials who fail to comply with budget regulation, including internal transparency statutes, can face more severe consequences, such as the possibility of being barred from office. However, our results show relatively few instances of punishment and, on average, punishments are only levied after ten years of legal processes. Overall, our results show how the Audit Courts (Tribunais de Contas), as the lynchpin agents of budgetary accountability and enforcement for Brazil’s 5570 municipalities, are as important as they are ineffective.

Keywords: Brazil, transparency, budgeting, education, enforcement, accountability

Suggested Citation:

Michener, Gregory, Internal Transparency: Compliance and Punishment in the Brazilian Municipal Budget Process (February 11, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3784007 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3784007
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
A C Andrada , L C Barros
O parecer prévio como instrumento de transparência, controle social e fortalecimento da cidadania. Revista do tribunal de contas do estado de Minas Gerais , volume 77 , p. 53 - 75 Posted: 2010
A L Baião , A S M Cunha , Da , F S R N Souza , De
Papel das transferências intergovernamentais na equalização fiscal dos municípios brasileiros
Revista do Serviço Público , volume 68 , issue 3 , p. 583 - 610 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Process Tracing: From Metaphor to Analytic Tool Posted: 2014
Crossref
F Bertholini , C Pereira , L Renno
Pork is policy: Dissipative inclusion at the local level
Governance , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 701 - 720 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
54
ABSTRACT VIEWS
647
RANK
889,053
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies