Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES IN GHANA

International Academic Journal of Economics and Finance (IAJEF)

12 Pages Posted: 25 Feb 2021

Maxwell Dela Yao Gakpo

Maxwell Dela Yao Gakpo

Date Written: February 22, 2021

Abstract

Corporate Governance and its relations with firm performance is the subject of a lot of academic interest. Corporate governance studies in Africa still lags and relatively less researched in the area of State operations. Therefore, this study was conducted to establish whether or not, adherence to good corporate governance practices influences the financial performance of State-Owned Enterprises in Ghana. This quantitative inquiry is anchored on the positivist method. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was used as proxy for the financial performance of these State-Owned Enterprises. The presence of an audit committee, gender diversity of boards, board size and the frequency of board meetings were applied as characteristics of corporate governance. Twenty-two (22) SOEs were purposively sampled with data spanning from 2012 to 2016. The study found out that though there were some positive and negative relations between the four independent variables and the accounting performance measures. However, most of the relationships were not statistically significant. Corporate governance did not improve firm performance directly but it required the interaction with other factors to achieve the changes required. The study recommends that other factors of corporate governance should be explored as well as the interrelationships between them in future studies. Most of the objects of these State -Owned Enterprises in Ghana are not primarily profits oriented, so other dependent variables like their impact on citizens and delivery of key performance indicators should also be considered in future research as performance measures.



Keywords: corporate governance, state-owned enterprise, return on capital employed, financial performance.

Suggested Citation:

Gakpo, Maxwell Dela Yao, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PERFORMANCE OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES IN GHANA (February 22, 2021). International Academic Journal of Economics and Finance (IAJEF), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3790914
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
M Abdul , M Makki
Impact of corporate governance on intellectual capital efficiency and financial performance
Pakistan Journal of Commerce and Social Sciences , volume 8 , issue 2 , p. 305 - 330 Posted: 2014
G Abid , A Ahmed
Failing in corporate governance and warning signs of a corporate
Pakistan Journal of Commerce & Social Sciences , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 846 - 866 Posted: 2014
G Abid , B Khan , Z Rafiq , A Ahmed , G Khan , B Rafiq
Theoretical perspectives of corporate governance
Bulletin of Business and Economics , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 166 - 175 Posted: 2014
E Adegbite
Good corporate governance in Nigeria: Antecedents, propositions and peculiarities
International Business Review , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 319 - 330 Posted: 2015
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
572
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,564
RANK
109,776
1 Citations
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies