Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effectiveness of the Office of the Auditor General in Enhancing Public Sector Accountability in Zimbabwe

Researchjournali’s Journal of Economics, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp: 01-20.

20 Pages Posted: 22 Mar 2021

Noell Machinjike

Independent

Wellington Garikai Bonga

Liverpool John Moores University

stanford hundi

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 28, 2021

Abstract

The study examined the effectiveness of the Auditor General’s Office in enhancing public sector accountability in Zimbabwe. The public sector has been characterised by financial irregularities and mismanagement of funds (Bernard, 2009), yet the AG’s office exist to enhance accountability and transparency. Some recommendations from AG’s Office were not being considered, hence affecting its effectiveness in fostering accountability. The study adopted a qualitative research approach, conducted in-depth interviews targeting key informants from the AG’s Office, academics from the University of Zimbabwe and other tertiary institutions, members of the Parliament of Zimbabwe Portfolio Committee of Accounts, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development and other government ministries, and others deemed relevant for the task. Factors that hindered compliance with the AG’s recommendations include; financial resources inadequacy to upgrade public sector financial systems; poor accounting environment; inadequacy manpower and qualified personnel; limited feedback between the AG’s Office and the government departments; lack of executive capacity; lack of political will; and lack of respect for the established institutional frameworks. The AG’s Office is not independent as stipulated by the constitution and its effectiveness is heavily affected by weak institutional framework. The recruitment process is not independent, hiring comes from Public Sector Commission. Among other recommendations, the AG’s legal framework should be upgraded to ensure that government institutions comply with recommendations.

Keywords: Accountability, Auditor General, Funds Management, Weak Institutions, Political Will, Public Sector, Zimbabwe

JEL Classification: E02, E61, H73, H77, H83, K42

Suggested Citation:

Machinjike, Noell and Bonga, Wellington Garikai and hundi, stanford, Effectiveness of the Office of the Auditor General in Enhancing Public Sector Accountability in Zimbabwe (February 28, 2021). Researchjournali’s Journal of Economics, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp: 01-20. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3806542
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
R Almquist
Public Sector Governance and Accountability
Crit Perspect Account Posted: 2012
Audit Office Act [Chapter , volume 22
Crossref
C Baberton
Transparency and Participation in the Budget Process. South Africa: A Country Report. IDASA: Cape Town Posted: 2000
A Bellver , D Kaufmann
Transparenting Transparency. Initial Empirics and Policy Applications Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
344
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,190
RANK
199,553
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

African Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies