Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The impact of IPSAS adoption on corruption in developing countries

Tawiah, V. The impact of IPSAS adoption on corruption in developing countries. Financial Accountability and Management (forthcoming

Posted: 19 Mar 2021

Vincent Tawiah

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce; Griffith University; University of Cape Coast; Dublin City University Business School

Date Written: March 18, 2021

Abstract

This paper investigates whether the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) is a potential enabler or constrainer of corruption in developing countries. We employ the System Generalised Method of Moments on a sample of 77 developing countries between 2005-2017. We find that IPSAS is negatively and significantly associated with corruption, suggesting that the adoption of IPSAS helps in controlling corruption in developing countries. The results still hold after accounting for IPSAS experience and the adoption of other international accounting standards. However, in further analyses, we find that the negative impact of IPSAS on corruption is more pronounced for countries that have fully adopted the accrual-based IPSAS. This study, therefore, provides evidence to policymakers on why developing countries should adopt IPSAS, especially in the fight against corruption.

Keywords: Accrual accounting, Corruption; Developing countries, Government accounting, IPSAS.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Tawiah, Vincent and Tawiah, Vincent, The impact of IPSAS adoption on corruption in developing countries (March 18, 2021). Tawiah, V. The impact of IPSAS adoption on corruption in developing countries. Financial Accountability and Management (forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3807212
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
548
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies