Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Shaping Accountability at an NGO: A Bourdieusian Perspective

Kuruppu, S.C. and Lodhia, S. (2019), "Shaping accountability at an NGO: a Bourdieusian perspective", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 33 No. 1, pp. 178-203. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-09-2016-2696

27 Pages Posted: 26 Mar 2021 Last revised: 5 Apr 2021

Sanjaya Kuruppu

University of South Australia

Sumit Lodhia

University of South Australia

Date Written: March 25, 2021

Abstract

Purpose - This research examines the concept of accountability as it relates to a nongovernmental organisation (NGO) evolving through a period of considerable change in Sri Lanka.

Design/methodology/approach – An in-depth single case study of a large NGO working in Sri Lanka is presented. Data collection involved conducting semi-structured interviews with a range of NGO employees and stakeholders, undertaking participant and non-participant observation, and document analysis.

Findings - This paper shows how accountability is a contested notion that is shaped by struggles among stakeholders within a field. We explore how the ‘widespread field’ consisting of the aid context in Sri Lanka and internationally is rapidly shifting. This creates unique pressures within the ‘restricted field’ of the case NGO and its constituents. These pressures are manifested in the contest of the different capitals held by various stakeholders to shape the NGO. The nature of access to these capitals is important in the way that the NGO is shaped by external forces, and also by the individuals within it.

Research Implications - This study adds fresh perspective to the growing body of work in NGO accountability. The paper highlights the tensions NGOs face through a holistic application of a Bourdieusian conceptual framework. We show how the habitus of the organisation is shaped in such a way that conceptions of accountability were captured by powerful external and internal constituencies. Ultimately, the nature of an organisational agency is questioned.

Practice Implications - We present a more nuanced understanding of forces which shape accountability in an NGO setting which is of practical relevance to NGOs and their stakeholders. We highlight the struggle for an NGO to maintain its agency through resisting external forces that impact on its operations.

Originality/value – This study presents a comprehensive and holistic application of Bourdieu’s concepts and their interactions in an organisational setting. The struggle to harness various forms of capital in the field, shapes doxa and the habitus of NGO actors, illuminating the role of symbolic violence in the creation of an organisational identity.

Keywords: Non-governmental organisations, accountability, Bourdieu, capital, habitus, doxa

Suggested Citation:

Kuruppu, Sanjaya and Lodhia, Sumit, Shaping Accountability at an NGO: A Bourdieusian Perspective (March 25, 2021). Kuruppu, S.C. and Lodhia, S. (2019), "Shaping accountability at an NGO: a Bourdieusian perspective", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, Vol. 33 No. 1, pp. 178-203. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-09-2016-2696, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3811967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
103 References
K Abouassi
Hands in the pockets of mercurial donors: NGO response to shifting funding priorities
Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 42 , p. 584 - 602 Posted: 2013
Agence France-Presse
Sri Lanka tsunami survivors protest corrupt aid distribution Posted: 2005-02-04
G Agyemang , B O&apos;dwyer , J Unerman , M Awumbila
Seeking "conversations for accountability
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 982 - 1007 Posted: 2017
Crossref
Z Ahmed , T Hopper , D Wickramsinghe
Hegemony, counter hegemony and NGO accountability change: BRAC in Bangladesh
Sixth Asia Pacific Interdisciplinary Research in Accounting Conference Posted: 2010-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,015
RANK
373,551
103 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies