Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Improve Performance or Corruption Motivation in Beyond Budget Implementation, Survey in Public Sector Organizations

Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.12, No.6, 2021

9 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021

Abdulzahra Alrawazqee

Kalmyk state university

Tamara Tsatkhlanova

Kalmyk State University

Date Written: March 31, 2021

Abstract

This paper aims to determine possibility beyond budget implementation in public sector organization which submissive to federal government budget instructions, this budget as an act should be followed, by those organizations committed by financial ministry planning. We have discussed tow thinking groups. First, a group that performs the use of the budget as a tool for financial control, they criticize the use of beyond budget, (Horngren et al., 2004). second, group ague adoption of the budget in the control is method has become useless, beyond budget provide better utilization resource and best regarding with market opportunities and problems (Hope and Fraser, 2003), (Hansen et al., 2003). We interviewed accounting managers, auditing managers, and their assistance in research sample organizations which owned by government. Interviews were conducted from a managerial viewpoint with the accounting managers and their assistants, as well as from a control viewpoint with auditing managers, in order to distinguish between areas of corruption and financial performance motivation. Interview has done in December 2020 to February 2021, in public sector organization in Al-Najaf city in Iraq. We found public sector organization possible to implement beyond budget. However research sample organizations need to improve their level of controlling and efficiency for employees otherwise ignore traditional budgets, will cause corruption and authority misusing. Implementation beyond budgeting helps them to provide solutions the problems facing activities which unexpected.

Keywords: beyond budgeting, performance improving, reduce corruption, controlling

Suggested Citation:

Alrawazqee, Abdulzahra and Tsatkhlanova, Tamara, Improve Performance or Corruption Motivation in Beyond Budget Implementation, Survey in Public Sector Organizations (March 31, 2021). Research Journal of Finance and Accounting, Vol.12, No.6, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3820741
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
A Bourmistrov , K Kaarboe
From comfort to stretch zones: A field study of two multinational companies applying 'beyond budgeting' ideas
Management Accounting Research , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 196 - 211 Posted: 2013
Crossref
B Bogsnes
Implementing Beyond Budgeting: Unlocking the performance potential Posted: 2016
P Bunce
The beyond budgeting journey towards adaptive management. A report on the better budgeting forum fromCIMA and ICAEW Posted: 2004-07
N Cugueró-Escofet , J Rosanas
The Ethics of Metrics: Overcoming the Dysfunctional Effects of Performance Measurements through Justice
Journal of Business Ethics Posted: 2016
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
288
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,050
RANK
241,819
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies