Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Excessive CEO Compensation and Volunteer Numbers in Nonprofit Organizations

44 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 11 Dec 2024

Wim Maas

Tilburg University - Department of Accounting

Anja De Waegenaere

Tilburg University - Department of Econometrics & OR, Netspar, and CentER

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

This study investigates the impact of excessive executive compensation on volunteer engagement in nonprofit organizations. Using compensation data from IRS Form 990 and 513 news media articles on nonprofit compensation, we find that CEO compensation adversely affects the number of volunteers, but only when the compensation details receive media coverage. It does not matter whether that compensation is excessive. Our results are robust in charitable industries, among smaller organizations, and organizations with strong governance. We do not find evidence that compensation is related to volunteer numbers without media attention, except in the “Arts, Culture, and Humanities” industry. Our research uncovers novel consequences of executive compensation within the nonprofit sector and highlights the crucial role of the media in communicating governance
information to stakeholders.

Keywords: executive compensation, nonprofit organizations, volunteers, distributive injustice

JEL Classification: M12

Suggested Citation:

Maas, Wim and De Waegenaere, Anja M.B., Excessive CEO Compensation and Volunteer Numbers in Nonprofit Organizations (July 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828486 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3828486
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
Efficiency wage models of the labor market Posted: 1986
G A Akerlof , J L Yellen
The fair wage-effort hypothesis and unemployment
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 2 , p. 255 - 283 Posted: 1990
G Baker
Distortion and risk in optimal incentive contracts
The Journal of Human Resources , volume 37 , issue 4 , p. 728 - 751 Posted: 2002
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of ceo compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
224
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,574
RANK
311,489
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies