Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Profit to Polity: A U.S. Water Utility’s Transition to a Government-Shareholder Model

43 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2021 Last revised: 22 Jun 2021

Janice Beecher

Michigan State University

Date Written: June 21, 2021

Abstract

The Pennichuck Corporation, located in New Hampshire, U.S., provides a unique opportunity to explore the rare structural transition from investor-ownership to a government-shareholder model for a long-standing regional water utility. In early 2012, concluding a ten-year dispute, the City of Nashua leveraged its power of eminent domain to become Pennichuck’s sole shareholder not by a taking but by a stock purchase agreement transferring the entirety of the company’s regulated and unregulated assets. We draw on primary documentation and data to review the terms of the transaction and contrast the ex-ante and ex-post models. Utility operations and state economic regulation remained constant over the transition, thus controlling for their potential effects. Our descriptive analysis of time-series financial and other data provides evidence of outcomes, including the lower cost of capital and operations. This information-rich case illustrates the arduous process of public acquisition, calling into question the institutionalized policy asymmetry favoring private over public acquisitions, which undermines structural competition.

Keywords: Water, utilities, ownership, privatization, municipalization, public shareholder

Suggested Citation:

Beecher, Janice, From Profit to Polity: A U.S. Water Utility’s Transition to a Government-Shareholder Model (June 21, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3828802 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3828802
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
173 References
Appendix: Timeline of the Pennichuck Corporation Ownership Transition 1997-07-01 New Hampshire statutes (Ch. 38) allow for municipal acquisitions of utilities with or without agreement of the parties (NHPUC)
Growth-oriented PSC purchases Consumers Water Co., including its Maine operations (SEC)
Aquarion Water is purchased by Kelda Group (UK), which also acquires certain American Water
Pennichuck's board forms a planning committee to evaluate strategic alternatives in the context of industry consolidation and other factors (SEC)
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,026
RANK
453,964
173 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Firm Structure, Purpose, Organization & Contracting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies