Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Shock of Evaluation: Examining the Impact of Efficiency Metrics on Nonprofits’ Reporting and Revenues

36 Pages Posted: 1 May 2021

Alexandra Graddy-Reed

Sol Price School of Public Policy University of Southern California

Date Written: September 17, 2019

Abstract

Despite the constant battle over financial ratios, the existing literature has failed to converge on how these overhead expenditures actually impact nonprofit revenues and behavior. With improved analysis, this paper addresses the issues through two models that more accurately account for the mechanism of third-party ratings in the overhead debate. Using data from Charity Navigator and the IRS Form 990, a series of fixed effects models assess how third-party ratings impact how nonprofit organizations report their administrative costs and how both ratings and overhead ratios impact private contributions and grants. Most notably, the results show that after the expansion of Charity Navigator in 2011, firms report overhead ratios approximately 9.2 percent lower when they become eligible to be rated. Regarding revenues, within firm changes to overhead ratios have no impact on either rated or non-rated firms. While, for rated firms, controlling for overhead ratios, third party ratings have a positive effect on public support revenues.

Keywords: Nonprofit Organizations, Charitable Giving, Expense Ratios, Financial Reporting, Charity Ratings

JEL Classification: D64, L31

Suggested Citation:

Graddy-Reed, Alexandra, The Shock of Evaluation: Examining the Impact of Efficiency Metrics on Nonprofits’ Reporting and Revenues (September 17, 2019). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3833212 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3833212
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
J Andreoni
Toward a theory of charitable fund-raising
Journal of Political Economy , volume 106 , issue 6 , p. 1186 - 1213 Posted: 1998
Crossref
S Ashley , L Faulk
Nonprofit competition in the grants marketplace
Nonprofit Management and Leadership , volume 21 , issue 1 , p. 43 - 57 Posted: 2010
Crossref
R Bekkers , P Wiepking
A literature review of empirical studies of philanthropy: Eight mechanisms that drive charitable giving. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 40 , p. 924 - 973 Posted: 2011
R Bhattacharya , D Tinkelman
How tough are better business bureau/wise giving alliance financial standards? Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 467 - 489 Posted: 2009
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
64
ABSTRACT VIEWS
602
RANK
812,529
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies