Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cash to Accruals Accounting in British Central Government; a Journey Through Time

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability and management

Posted: 5 May 2021

John Richard Edwards

Cardiff University - Cardiff Business School, Accounting and Business History Research Group

Date Written: April 29, 2021

Abstract

Departmental and central government accountability to the UK Parliament was based principally on cash transactions for a period of over 300 years commencing with the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Beginning in the second decade of the nineteenth century, recurrent proposals for the replacement of cash accounting by accruals accounting were founded on the conviction that “commercial” accounting practices provided a more effective basis for performance measurement, financial control and public accountability. This paper studies the progress of these initiatives through time, with Treasury resistance to the adoption of private sector-type accounting practices by administrative departments recognized as a persistent and effective barrier to innovation up until the 1980s.


Keywords: cash accounting; commercial accounting; Treasury; new public management; resistance to change

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Edwards, John Richard, Cash to Accruals Accounting in British Central Government; a Journey Through Time (April 29, 2021). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability and management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3836755
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
275
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies