Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Empirical Analysis on Quality Waqf Reporting Practices of Waqf Institutions in Malaysia

Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems (Vol. 194) (pp.1565-1582). Switzerland: Springer Nature (2021)

Posted: 20 May 2021

Mustafa Hanefah

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM) - Faculty of Economics and Muamalat

Muhammad Iqmal Hisham Kamaruddin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Rosnia Masruki

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia

Fuadah Johari

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Aimi Fadzirul Kamarubahrin

Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia (USIM)

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

The purpose of this study is to investigate the current quality waqf reporting practices by waqf institutions in Malaysia. Five factors that influence quality waqf reporting practices namely relevance, faithful representation, understandability, comparability and timeliness were studied. Twenty items were used to measure the current level of quality waqf reporting practices in all 14 waqf institutions in Malaysia. Results show the current quality waqf reporting practices by waqf institutions in Malaysia are at a moderate level as it only scored 40.29%. Among the five factors, timeliness scored the highest with 54.29% while the lowest score is comparability at 27.5%. Among the 14 waqf institutions, Perbadanan Wakaf Selangor (PWS) achieved the highest score with 82%.On the other hand, there are eight (8) waqf institutions that only scored 20% (all 20 items are scored with one (1) as the lowest score value). This research provides an important extension on previous knowledge and relevant literature of quality waqf reporting practices by waqf institutions in Malaysia. Moreover, this research focuses on the key dimensions of quality waqf reporting practices reported in the literature. This research helps especially the management of waqf institutions to measure their current disclosure level to improve quality waqf reporting practices.

Keywords: Quality waqf reporting, Waqf institutions, Islamic accounting

Suggested Citation:

Hanefah, Mustafa and Kamaruddin, Muhammad Iqmal Hisham and Masruki, Rosnia and Johari, Fuadah and Kamarubahrin, Aimi Fadzirul, Empirical Analysis on Quality Waqf Reporting Practices of Waqf Institutions in Malaysia (2021). Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems (Vol. 194) (pp.1565-1582). Switzerland: Springer Nature (2021), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848287
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
348
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies