Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Administration in Developing Countries

College, E. O., Abiahu, M.C., Egbunike, P.A. & Obada, P.J. (2021, January). Tax administration in developing countries. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN)

23 Pages Posted: 2 Jun 2021

Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem Abiahu

CIBN Centre for Financial Studies

Ogodogun Emuoghene

Business Education Department, College of Education, Warri.

Amaechi Egbunike

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Paradise Josephine Obada

Nnamdi Azikiwe University - Department of Accountancy

Date Written: January 30, 2021

Abstract

The aim of this study is to evaluate tax administration in developing countries using selected countries in West Africa. This study becomes pertinent as a result of various trade agreements signed by the Presidents and Heads of State of these countries guaranteeing easy cross-borders trading. The methodology employed involved the review of extant literature relating to the subject under study using purposive sampling of developing countries in West Africa which include Nigeria, Republic of Benin, Togo, Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal. Findings revealed that there are differences in tax administration systems between the selected countries. The paper therefore recommends that all crossborder businessmen and the citizens of every country should deliberately keep themselves updated on the tax regime operating in the country they are staying, trading or intend to trade so that they will not fall on the negative side of the tax laws.

Keywords: Developing countries, tax administration, trade agreements, tax laws, tax regime

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Abiahu, Mary-Fidelis Chidoziem and Ogodogun, College and Egbunike, Amaechi and Obada, Paradise Josephine, Tax Administration in Developing Countries (January 30, 2021). College, E. O., Abiahu, M.C., Egbunike, P.A. & Obada, P.J. (2021, January). Tax administration in developing countries. In Taxation, Social Contract and Economic Development. Proceedings of 4th Annual International Academic Conference of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3853479
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
M C Abiahu , N N Amahalu
Effect of taxation on dividend policy of quoted deposit money banks in Nigeria
EPH -International Journal of Business& Management Science , volume 2 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 30 Posted: 2006
A Abdella , J Clifford
Report for the private sector development Hub/Addis Ababa chamber of commerce and sectoral association Posted: 2010
I R Akintoye , F F Adegbie , C V Onyeka-Iheme
Tax Planning Strategies and Profitability of Quoted Manufacturing Companies in Nigeria
Journal of Finance and Accounting , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 148 - 157 Posted: 2020
Crossref
Handbook for Tax Administrations: Organizational structure and management of Tax Administrations Posted: 2000
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
561
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,534
RANK
112,534
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax Law: International & Comparative Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies