Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Budgetary Allocation on Local Government Administration in Nigeria (1993-2020)

18 Pages Posted: 22 Jul 2022

Uchechi Great Ibe

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education

Wonders Ebimotimimowei Pibowei

Ignatius Ajuru University of Education; Renaissance University Enugu

Date Written: July 18, 2022

Abstract

Budgetary allocation seeks to plan, raise and disburse enough revenue for the administration of local government councils, which helps raise the aggregate standard of living and promote ease of doing business at the grassroots level. This study investigated the effect of budgetary allocation on the administration of local government councils in Nigeria. The research was anchored on the subsidiarity principle. Expo-facto research design with interval scale of measurement and preceding year basis of sampling was adopted. The target population was a budget history of 28 years from 1993 to 2020, while the sample size was a period of 10 years from 2010 to 2019. This study used secondary data from the Central Bank of Nigeria and the State & Local Government Affairs Office. The univariate analysis, bivariate analysis, OLS model, pre-estimation, and post-estimation techniques were used to analyze the data. This paper found that there is a significant relationship between GFA, SGA, VAT, GRANT, and RED at p-values of 0.005, 0.012, 0.015, and 0.004; while there is no significant relationship between IGR and RED at a p-value of 0.294. This paper concludes in line with findings that GFA, SGA, VAT and GRANT were adequate to finance and disburse recurrent expenditure; however, IGR were not adequate to finance and disburse recurrent expenditure. This paper recommends that municipal authorities should promote retained earnings from government allocations as well as automate revenue generation. Budgetary allocation seeks to plan, raise and disburse enough revenue for the administration of local government councils, which help raise aggregate standard of living, and promote ease of doing business at the grassroots level. This study investigated the effect of budgetary allocation on the administration of local government councils in Nigeria. The research was anchored on subsidiarity principle. Expo-facto research design with interval scale of measurement and preceding year basis of sampling was adopted. The target population was a budget history of 28 years from 1993 to 2020, while sample size was a period of 10 years from 2010 to 2019. This study used secondary data from the Central Bank of Nigeria and the State & Local Government Affairs Office. The univariate analysis, bivariate analysis, OLS model, pre-estimation and post-estimation techniques were used to analyze the data. This paper found that there is a significant relationship between GFA, SGA, VAT, GRANT, and RED at p-values of 0.005, 0.012, 0.015 and 0.004; while there is no significant relationship between IGR and RED at a p-value of 0.294. This paper concludes in line with findings that GFA, SGA, VAT and GRANT were adequate to finance and disburse recurrent expenditure; however, IGR were not adequate to finance and disburse recurrent expenditure. This paper recommends that municipal authorities should promote retained earnings from government allocations as well as automate revenue generation.

Keywords: Budgetary Allocation, Recurrent Expenditure, Administration, Local Government, Nigeria

Suggested Citation:

Ibe, Uchechi Great and Pibowei, Wonders Ebimotimimowei, The Effect of Budgetary Allocation on Local Government Administration in Nigeria (1993-2020) (July 18, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3855613 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3855613
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
W O Ajiteru , L O Adaranijo , L A Bakari
Tax Revenue and Infrastructural Development in Osun State
International Journal of Innovative Finance and Economics Research , volume 6 , issue 2 , p. 50 - 61 Posted: 2018
J R Bartle
Applying pragmatism to public budgeting and financial management Posted: 2008
K Boedijono , Z H Muhammad , S Eleonora
Fuel and gas subsidy budget reallocation on infrastructure development budget towards Indonesian economic growth and macroeconomic indicators
OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development , volume 12 , issue 8 , p. 11 - 20 Posted: 2019
I E E Davies , C O Nwankwo , O M Olofinnade , T A Michaels
Insight review on impact of infrastructural development in driving the SDGs in developing nations: a case study of Nigeria
IOP Series: Materials Science & Engineering , volume 640 , p. 1 - 9 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
249
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,401
RANK
280,604
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies