Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public-Private Partnership and Bureaucracy

Subedi M. (2020) Public-Private Partnership and Bureaucracy. In: Farazmand A. (eds) Global Encyclopedia of Public Administration, Public Policy, and Governance.

6 Pages Posted: 10 Jun 2021

Meena Subedi

Carroll University

Date Written: January 10, 2020

Abstract

This article uses three major public finance theories – principal-agent theory (P-A theory, also known as agency theory), transaction cost economics theory (TCE), and resource-based theory –to discuss the benefits of public-private partnership for toll roads in the United States.

The partnership involves cooperation – i.e., “to work or act together.” A partnership can be defined as a collaboration between people or organizations in public or private sector for mutual benefit. Public-private partnership (hereafter, PPP), according to Harding, (1990) is “any action which relies on the agreement of actors in the public and private sectors and which also contributes in some way to improving the urban economy and the quality of life” (p. 110). In the United States, PPP plays a vital role to restore local and urban communities (Osborne 2000).

In the past, the use of PPP was relatively rare. At present, some “governments are keen to shift more welfare provision into private hands to keep public spending under control and to avoid having to raise taxes or cut benefits” (Rosenau 2000, p. 2). And this venture between public and private business currently celebrates remarkable approval in both official and scholarly circles. The alliance between public and private sector requires actors from each sector to embrace each other’s characteristics and points of view. Public sector actors would need to think and behave like entrepreneurs, and private sector actors would need to carefully consider the public interest and expect greater public accountability (Linder 1999).

Keywords: Public-Private Partnership, Public-Private Synergies, Government and Private Sector Alliance, Public-Private Mutual Benefit

Suggested Citation:

Subedi, Meena, Public-Private Partnership and Bureaucracy (January 10, 2020). Subedi M. (2020) Public-Private Partnership and Bureaucracy. In: Farazmand A. (eds) Global Encyclopedia of Public Administration, Public Policy, and Governance., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3861953
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Strategic issues in public-private partnerships: An international perspective
Aspen Institute (1997) Voices from the field. Aspen Institute, Washington Bult-Spiering M, Dewulf G , volume 26 , p. 31 - 61 Posted: 2000
De Palma , A Leruth , L Prunier , G
Towards a principal-agent based typology of risks in public-private partnerships. Reflets et perspectives de la vie économique , volume 51 , p. 57 - 73 Posted: 2012
M Dewatripont , P Legros
Public-private partnerships: contract design and risk transfer
EIB Pap , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 120 - 145 Posted: 2005
C Edwards , G Roth
Downsizing the federal government: your guide to cutting federal spending (Publication Posted: 2017
Load more
1 Citations
Scott Dell , Meena Subedi , Maxwell Hsu , Ali Farazmand
Social Capital and Financial Performance in Nonprofits
Dell, S., Subedi, M., Hsu, M. K., &amp; Farazmand, A. (2022). Social capital and financial performance in nonprofits. Public Organization Review, 22(1), 193-210. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11115-021-00570-0 · 31 Pages · Posted: 1 Jun 2022 · Last revised: 25 May 2025 · Downloads: 222
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
135
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,114
RANK
490,025
1 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies