Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Funding Implications of Normal and Excessive Profitability in the Nonprofit Sector

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming

Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming

43 Pages Posted: 8 Jun 2021 Last revised: 22 Nov 2021

Sudipta Basu

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Zhanel DeVides

Penn State - Abington

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Date Written: November 16, 2021

Abstract

We study how nonprofit profitability affects external funding. Using a sample of over 273 thousand U.S. nonprofit organization (NPO) observations between 1999-2019, we find that profitability is associated with greater public support; however, when NPOs are excessively profitable, they receive fewer subsequent donations. We find a similar relationship, but to a smaller degree, between NPO profitability and government grant funding. We infer that funders desire moderate but not overly high profitability. We also find that donors are more tolerant of normal and excessive profitability for NPOs in the healthcare industry, smaller NPOs, and NPOs with shorter planning horizons. The relationship between profitability and external funding is weaker during recession periods, with funders not penalizing excessively profitable organizations during economic downturns.

Keywords: nonprofit, excess profitability, donations, government grants, planning horizon

JEL Classification: D64, H81, L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Basu, Sudipta and DeVides, Zhanel and Harris, Erica, Funding Implications of Normal and Excessive Profitability in the Nonprofit Sector (November 16, 2021). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Forthcoming, Fox School of Business Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3862230 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3862230
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
62 References
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion Posted: 2009
R Ball , R L Watts
Some time series properties of accounting income
The Journal of Finance , volume 27 , issue 3 , p. 663 - 681 Posted: 1972
S Balsam , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
The Accounting Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2014
S Balsam , E E Harris
Nonprofit executive incentive pay
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1665 - 1714 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
100
ABSTRACT VIEWS
749
RANK
618,599
2 Citations
62 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Fox School of Business, Temple University Research Paper Series

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies