Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Earnings Management in Australian Not-for-Profit Disability Services

19 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2021 Last revised: 24 Aug 2022

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Dane Etheridge

Curtin University

Zhangxin (Frank) Liu

The University of Western Australia - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: June 11, 2021

Abstract

The Australian not-for-profit and charitable sector is an important component in that country’s social capital. It delivers services and supports to some of the most vulnerable people in the community. However, up until recently, poor data sets related to the sector’s financial performance and position have meant that the examination of its financial capacity has been unable to be undertaken. This paper reports on our findings relative to earnings management in the context of Not-for-profit disability service providers. Assessing a longitudinal data set providing financial data relative to 154 such not-for-profits, we have identified that the sector is subject to earnings management, that such activities are aimed at reducing reported profit likely in order for these organisations to meet the normative financial expectations of stakeholders including public sector funders and philanthropists. This finding has significant implications for our understanding of not-for-profit financial, regulatory and audit arrangements in place and accounting standards as they apply to this sector.

Keywords: Earnings Management; Not-for-profit; Charities; Human Services

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Gilchrist, David and Etheridge, Dane and Liu, Zhangxin (Frank), Earnings Management in Australian Not-for-Profit Disability Services (June 11, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3864804 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3864804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
Australian Charities and Not-forprofits Commission
References ACNC Posted: 2018
J Ballantine , J Forker , M Greenwood
The governance of CEO incentives in English NHS hospital trusts
Financial Accountability & Management , volume 24 , p. 385 - 410 Posted: 2008
M Barth , J Elliot , M Finn
Market rewards associated with patterns of increasing earnings
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 37 , p. 387 - 414 Posted: 1999
J Brickley , R L Van Horn
Managerial incentives in nonprofit organizations: evidence from hospitals
Journal of Law and Economics , p. 227 - 250 Posted: 2002
Load more
1 Citations
David J. Gilchrist , Andrew West , Yuyu Zhang
Barriers to the Usefulness of Non‐profit Financial Statements: Perspectives From Key Internal Stakeholders
Australian Accounting Review , volume 33 , issue 2 , p. 188 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
733
RANK
753,521
1 Citations
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies