Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Government Spending News and Surprise Shocks: It's The Timing and Persistence

49 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2021 Last revised: 29 Nov 2021

Jihye Kang

Seoul National University - BK21Plus Biomedical Science Project

Soyoung Kim

Seoul National University

Abstract

We identify government spending news and surprise shocks based on the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) data. After an analytical and empirical clarification of the natures of two news measures in Ramey (2011b), we show that a measure of the news shock for the recent sample period is still needed. Moreover, we find that news and surprise shocks may differ not only in timing but also in the level of persistence of government spending responses. Given these findings, we construct a present discounted value measure to capture government spending news shock of high persistence properly. The effects of the news shock are strikingly differ from those of the surprise shock. News shock has a significant expansionary effect on GDP, hours worked, real wage, consumption, and investment, whereas surprise shock has a contractionary effect. These results contrast with previous  findings (Ramey, 2011b) and are inconsistent with the neoclassical view emphasizing the negative wealth effect.

Keywords: Fiscal Foresight, Government Spending Shocks, News and Surprise Shocks, Survey of Professional Forecasters.

Suggested Citation:

Kang, Jihye and Kim, Soyoung, Government Spending News and Surprise Shocks: It's The Timing and Persistence. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3867115
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
S R Aiyagari , L J Christiano , M Eichenbaum
The output, employment, and interest rate effects of government consumption
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 73 - 86 Posted: 1992
L Alessi , M Barigozzi , M Capasso , M Caoasso
Non-Fundamentalness in Structural Econometric Models: A Review
International Statistical Review , volume 79 , issue 1 , p. 16 - 47 Posted: 2011
A J Auerbach , Y Gorodnichenko
Measuring the Output Responses to Fiscal Policy
American Economic Journal: Economic Policy , volume 4 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2012
R Bachmann , E R Sims
Confidence and the transmission of government spending shocks
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 59 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 249 Posted: 2012
Load more
2 Citations
Neville Francis , Michael T. Owyang , Daniel Soques
Impulse Response Functions for Self-Exciting Nonlinear Models
NBER Working Paper No. w31709 · 34 Pages · Posted: 25 Sep 2023 · Last revised: 25 Sep 2023 · Downloads: 15
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Zilong Song , Wenwen Zhang , Rixin Liang , Xu Sun
Local Happiness and Executive Compensation
This paper has been accepted and is forthcoming in the Journal of International Financial Management &amp; Accounting. · 23 Pages · Posted: 6 Feb 2025 · Last revised: 6 Feb 2025 · Downloads: 7
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
80
ABSTRACT VIEWS
593
RANK
713,531
2 Citations
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Consumption, Saving, & Wealth eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Production & Investment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies