Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Audit in Uncertain Times

Forthcoming, Cordery, CJ & Hay, D. ‘Public Sector Audit in Uncertain Times’ Financial Accountability and Management, Special Issue: The Future of Public Sector Audit.

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 29 Jun 2021

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: June 16, 2021

Abstract

In the future, environmental disasters and resource constraints will continue to impact the public sector audit environment. Governments will be held responsible for their responses and the corresponding financial impacts, particularly rising levels of public debt. Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) are vital in keeping governments accountable. Yet, they also need legitimacy and they are subject to isomorphic pressures to gain this.

Mimetic isomorphism explains SAIs’ structures, although they remain diverse, worldwide. Our analysis of extensive data about SAIs together with statistical measures about countries, an international survey and document analysis enables us to make projections about what isomorphic pressures will shape SAIs and enable them to deal with an uncertain future. Examining the cases of public debt and the UN’s SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) as case studies, we show how isomorphism will shape SAIs’ responses to an uncertain future.

Keywords: Isomorphism, public resource scarcity, public sector, auditing, Supreme Audit Institutions

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Hay, David, Public Sector Audit in Uncertain Times (June 16, 2021). Forthcoming, Cordery, CJ & Hay, D. ‘Public Sector Audit in Uncertain Times’ Financial Accountability and Management, Special Issue: The Future of Public Sector Audit., The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3868550
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies