Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Forensic Finance and Budgeting Process Within the Public Financial Management (PFM) Framework in the African Context

17 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2021

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: July 23, 2021

Abstract

International development institutions frequently prescribe improving public financial management (PFM) as part of the response to lowering corruption levels in low- and middle-income countries. But to date, there has been little cross-country analysis on whether better PFM is associated with lower levels of corruption. This paper investigates the relationship between PFM, crime, and forensic sciences' role in curbing corruption levels during the budgeting process.

The paper explores the public finance management (PFM) system in African countries, the PFM system and budget credibility, the PFM system, and fiscal outcomes. Further, the paper analyses how the PFM system can provide opportunities for corruption and how to strengthen the PFM as an anti-corruption strategy. In this regard, the paper brings forensic sciences and transparency in budget preparation, execution, and reporting.

In this paper, the author presents areas of corruption during the budgeting process. It involves several stages, including Long-term planning at the political level, the annual budget formulation in the executive branch, debate and passage of the budget in parliament, implementation by various ministries and government agencies, and oversight and control by several institutions. This paper will explain a case study on corruption during the budgeting process or budget padding.

On a positive note, the paper shows that if there is the political will to curb corruption in the budget process, three factors stand out as essential: transparency, objective criteria for allocating burdens and favouring legitimate decision-making processes. Finally, forensic sciences occupy the scene and its importance exis



Keywords: Public Finance, Budgeting, Africa, Finance Fraud and Management, Forensic Finance

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Forensic Finance and Budgeting Process Within the Public Financial Management (PFM) Framework in the African Context (July 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3876370 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3876370
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
A Ades , R Di Tella
Rents, Competition, and Corruption
American Economic Review , volume 89 , issue 4 , p. 982 - 93 Posted: 1999
J C Andvig , O.-H Fjeldstad , I Amundsen , T Sissener , T Søreide
Research on Corruption: A Policy-Oriented Survey. Final Report commissioned by Chr. Michelsen Institute and Norwegian Institute of International Affairs Posted: 2000
Y Ang
How China Escaped the Poverty Trap Posted: 2017
F Bastida , B Benito
Central Government Budget Practices and Transparency: An International Comparison
Public Administration , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 667 - 716 Posted: 2007
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
96
ABSTRACT VIEWS
777
RANK
635,835
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies