Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Accounting Treatment for Agri-Commodity Derivatives Under IFRS

Indian Journal of Commerce & Management Studies, Volume V Issue 3, Sep. 2014

6 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2021

Preetham D

Maharanis women's commerce and Management College Mysore

B. Mahadevappa

University of Mysore - Department of Commerce

Date Written: 2014

Abstract

IFRS 7 and 9 have requirement, for recognition, measurement and disclosure of derivatives. Derivatives include futures and options for hedging foreign currency risks, interest rate risk, price risk etc. Derivatives include financial and commodity derivatives, commodity derivatives are of recent origin, they include commodity futures traded in commodity markets. The requirements under IFRS 7 and 9 can be applied to commodity derivatives. The aim of the present study is to codify the requirement, for recognition, measurement and disclosure of commodity derivatives by Agri-business and Agri-process companies. The data were collected from annual reports of sample companies. Research instrument consists of requirements of recognition, measurement and disclosure index which has been formulated as per IFRS . Data were collected by content analysis method and analyzed using descriptive statistics .The results of the study reveals that of the information of Agri-commodity derivatives recognition, measurement, disclosure in the annual reports is very low level.

Keywords: Derivatives, Agri-Commodity derivatives, Recognition, Measurement, Disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M43

Suggested Citation:

D, Preetham and Mahadevappa, B., An Analysis of Accounting Treatment for Agri-Commodity Derivatives Under IFRS (2014). Indian Journal of Commerce & Management Studies, Volume V Issue 3, Sep. 2014, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3879955
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
18 References
Palash Goswami
Accounting and Reporting of Derivatives. The Chartered Accountant Posted: 2005
Dr , Vipul
Accounting for Financial Derivatives : U.S., International and Indian Standards. The Chartered Accountant Posted: 2003
Regulation and Accounting Treatment of Future and Option in Indian Derivative Market
International Journal of Scientific and Research Publication , volume 2 Posted: 2012
Gunther Gebhardt , Rolf Reichardt , Carten Wittenbrink
Accounting for Financial Instrument in the Banking industry : Conclusions from a Simulation Model
CFS Working Paper , volume 21 Posted: 2003
Crossref
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
373
RANK
826,677
18 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies