Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charitable Giving: Framing and the Role of Information

28 Pages Posted: 14 Jul 2021

Claudia Keser

University of Göttingen

Maximilian Späth

University of Göttingen

Date Written: July 08, 2021

Abstract

We study the impact of information on the effectiveness of a taking frame in the context of charitable giving. In our laboratory experiment, either the decision maker (giving frame) or the recipient (taking frame) receives an endowment. In both cases, the decision maker can freely decide the final allocation of the money. In addition to the frame, we vary the level of information that we provide about the worthiness of the receiving charity. In keeping with our theoretical prediction, participants donate significantly more, when the decision is framed as taking rather than as giving. However, this framing effect is smaller, the more information we provide on the charity.


Keywords: Information, Giving, Taking, Charity, Experiment

JEL Classification: C91, D64, D80

Suggested Citation:

Keser, Claudia and Späth, Maximilian, Charitable Giving: Framing and the Role of Information (July 08, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3884820 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3884820
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
15 References
A Abadie , S Gay
The impact of presumed consent legislation on cadaveric organ donation: a cross-country study
Journal of health economics , volume 25 , p. 599 - 620 Posted: 2006
Crossref
Crossref
F Aguiar , P Brañas-Garza , L M Miller
Moral distance in dictator games
Judgment and Decision Making , volume 3 , issue 4 , p. 344 - 354 Posted: 2008
M Alt , C Gallier , A Schlüter , K Nelson , E Anggraini
Giving to versus Taking from In-and Out-Group Members. Games, 9 Posted: 2018
Crossref
Load more
2 Citations
Jeffrey A. Livingston , Rustam Rasulmukhamedov
On the Interpretation of Giving in Dictator Games When the Recipient is a Charity
Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization , volume 208 , p. 275 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Alexandre Flage
Taking games: a meta-analysis
Journal of the Economic Science Association , volume 10 , issue 2 , p. 255 Posted: 2024
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
178
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,003
RANK
386,825
2 Citations
15 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance (Editor's Choice) eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies