Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Analysis of the Effectiveness of Financial Health Regulation in Spanish Local Governments

Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting

44 Pages Posted: 9 Aug 2021

Vicente Pina

University of Zaragoza

Patricia Bachiller

University of Zaragoza

Lara Ripoll

University of Zaragoza - Department of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 13, 2021

Abstract

The need to reduce public sector costs and debt has resulted in the implementation of requirements in many countries. Spain belongs to a group of countries which monitor the financial health of their local governments, using financial indicators enforced by law, and reporting this information periodically. The objective of this paper is to analyse whether the introduction of the 2012 Spanish legislation regarding fiscal stability and budgetary balance and Ministry of Finance Order 1781/2013, which develop new indicators, have led to improvements in the financial health of local governments. The results of our analysis show that the introduction of legal requirements is effective and that the disclosure of indicators for benchmarking purposes has been beneficial and positive, although this is not so in all cases. The practical implication of this study is that the dual demands of evaluating the financial situations of local governments and disclosing this information reinforce their responsibility with respect to the general interest. This enables the comparative evolution of indicators, concluding that requirements are also needed to ensure that the goals are achieved, thereby helping to restore the reliability and transparency of their activities.

Keywords: Benchmarking, financial risk, isomorphism, local governments, improvement, financial health.

Suggested Citation:

Pina, Vicente and Bachiller, Patricia and Ripoll, Lara, Analysis of the Effectiveness of Financial Health Regulation in Spanish Local Governments (July 13, 2021). Forthcoming in REFC – Spanish Journal of Finance and Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3885539
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
D N Ammons , W C Rivenbark
Factors Influencing the Use of Performance Data to Improve Municipal Services: Evidence from the North Carolina Benchmarking Project
Public Administration Review , volume 68 , issue 2 , p. 304 - 318 Posted: 2008
Crossref
D N Ammons , D J Roenigk
Benchmarking and Interorganizational Learning in Local Government
Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory , volume 25 , issue 1 , p. 309 - 335 Posted: 2014
Crossref
W Baber , P Sen
The Role of Generally Accepted Reporting Methods in the Public Sector: An Empirical Test
Journal of Accounting and Public Policy , volume 3 , p. 91 - 106 Posted: 1984
Crossref
F Bastida , B Benito , M D Guillamón
Evaluation of local public debt in Spain
Revista Española de Financiación y Contabilidad XL , issue 150 , p. 251 - 285 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
83
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
697,608
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies