Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Influence of Management Accounting Practices on Performance of Kisumu County Government

Middle East Journal of Applied Science & Technology 2021

18 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2021

Jared Okello Otieno

Turkana University College

Orthodox Tefer

Turkana University College

Erick Onyango Owino

Turkana University College

Date Written: July 16, 2021

Abstract

The main aim of this study was to examine the Influence of Management Accounting Practices on Performance of Kisumu County Government. The study aimed specifically to examine how the performance of Kisumu County Government is influenced by financial planning and budgeting and internal control and public finances governance. One of the objects of a transfer is to bring economic resources closer to the people, and effective public financial management practices are needed to make this felt by the people. The reviewed literature shows that limited studies are being conducted on the same subject and therefore this study aims to fill the gap by contributing to the existing knowledge. In the past six years, Kenya has experienced many challenges despite the improvement of the legislative and institutional frameworks for the management of public finances which are not in line with the global expected standard practice and therefore lead to a poorer service delivery. This study also aims to strengthen policies that streamline prudent public resource management. The study was based on participatory theory, contingency theory and institutional theory. The study employed mixed research and a deliberate technique for sampling. The county's director and accountants from the treasury of Kisumu County were among the respondents. In the case of primary data, a questionnaire was used to collect secondary data from the Budget Office, the Office of the Auditor General and the County Treasury Office. In the study qualitative and quantitative data were used. While content analyzes were used for qualitative data analysis, the Social Science Statistics Package Version 25 was used for quantitative data analyzing descriptive and inferential statistics. The effect of management accounting practices on the Kisumu County Government's performance has been assessed by a multiple linear regression analysis. The main finding was the importance of internal control practices involving monitoring, control environments, and internal audits (F (1, 196) = 156,124).

Keywords: Public finance management practices, Financial Performance

Suggested Citation:

Otieno, Jared Okello and Tefer, Orthodox and Onyango Owino, Erick, Influence of Management Accounting Practices on Performance of Kisumu County Government (July 16, 2021). Middle East Journal of Applied Science & Technology 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3888301
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
25 References
N M Alsharari , M A E A Youssef
Management accounting change and the implementation of GFMIS: a Jordanian case study Posted: 2017
N Y Alzoubi
The extent use of contemporary management accounting practices and its effect on operational performance of industrial corporations in Jordan
Asian J. of Finance & Accounting , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 367 - 389 Posted: 2018
S Ammar
Enterprise systems, business process management and UK-management accounting practices: Cross-sectional case studies
Qualitative Research in Accounting & Management Posted: 2017
M P Cheruiyot
Effect of Public Financial Management Practices on Performance of County Governments in Kenya (Doctoral dissertation Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
176
ABSTRACT VIEWS
616
RANK
390,788
25 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies