Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Reliance on Lifestyle Audits for Public Officials to Curb Corruption and Tax Evasion in Nigeria

How to cite this article Animashaun O and Chitimira H "The Reliance on Lifestyle Audits for Public Officials to Curb Corruption and Tax Evasion in Nigeria" PER / PELJ 2021(24) - DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.17159/1727-3781/2021/v24i0a10735

38 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2021

Sola Animashaun

North-West University

Howard Chitimira

North-West University

Date Written: 2021

Abstract

Widespread corruption in the Nigerian public service is having a far-reaching detrimental effect on the economy. Public officers and other policy makers that formulate socio-economic policies are the main perpetrators of corruption in Nigeria. This article focusses on the viability of lifestyle audits for public officials as a strategy for combating such corruption, the proceeds of which are usually laundered and warehoused either offshore or in Nigeria with the assistance of professionals such as bankers and lawyers. If such warehoused wealth is discovered it is usually forfeited to the treasury of the government of Nigeria, after the trial of the offenders. This article interrogates the adequacy of the relevant legislation and the efficacy of the statutory bodies responsible for lifestyle audits in Nigeria, such as the Code of Conduct Bureau, which is discussed, as are the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act, 2010, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Act, 2004, and the income tax reporting framework administered by the Federal Inland Revenue Service. It appears that the provisions relating to lifestyle audits under the Nigerian statutes are not robust enough to curb corruption and tax evasion. In addition, the enforcement of such lifestyle audits is hindered by the immunity granted to certain Nigerian public officers and jurisdictional conflicts in prosecuting corruption cases.

Keywords: Lifestyle audits, public officers, corruption, tax evasion, technology

Suggested Citation:

Animashaun, Sola and Chitimira, Howard, The Reliance on Lifestyle Audits for Public Officials to Curb Corruption and Tax Evasion in Nigeria (2021). How to cite this article Animashaun O and Chitimira H "The Reliance on Lifestyle Audits for Public Officials to Curb Corruption and Tax Evasion in Nigeria" PER / PELJ 2021(24) - DOI http://dx.doi.org/10.17159/1727-3781/2021/v24i0a10735 , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3897804
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
See Dr Olubukola Abubakar Saraki v FRN Posted: 2016
Fwlr All
, volume 59 , p. 1 - 3
Waziri Corruption and Governance Challenge , volume 6
113 Okifo and Igbunu
Journal of Education and Practice , p. 59 - 60 Posted: 2015
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
650
RANK
687,436
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies