Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impression Management in Public Sector Audit Proposals: Language and Fees

European Accounting Review, forthcoming

63 Pages Posted: 13 Aug 2021

Yu-Tzu Chang

National Chengchi University

Dan N. Stone

University of Kentucky - Von Allmen School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 11, 2021

Abstract

We adapt impression management theory to investigate: (1) whether governmental audit proposals include the values of “professionalism” (i.e., independence and competence) and “commercialism” (i.e., client cooperation, auditor trustworthiness, client satisfaction, commercial interests), and, (2) the relations of audit proposal language and contextual influences on proposed audit fees and proposal success. The results suggest that proposals accord with audit firms’ market strategies. Compared to other firms, proposals from small, non-specialist firms use more commercial language, while proposals from governmental specialist firms use more competence language. The results also suggest that the market for US public sector audits includes many low cost, low quality firms; specifically, the modal proposal (41.2%) includes high use of commercialism language and low proposed audit fees. We also find that audit firms propose higher audit fees in US states with a weak governmental internal auditing office, and, that greater use of commercial language correlates with higher rates of proposal success, but only in US states with weak governmental internal auditing functions. The finding of inter-relations between proposal language, the strength of governmental internal audit functions, and proposed fees suggests the value of considering multiple influences on the quality of the public sector financial controls.

Keywords: Audit proposals, impression management, audit firm strategy, professionalism, commercialism

JEL Classification: M42

Suggested Citation:

Chang, Yu-Tzu and Stone, Dan N., Impression Management in Public Sector Audit Proposals: Language and Fees (August 11, 2021). European Accounting Review, forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
130 References
W Aerts
Picking up the pieces: Impression management in the retrospective attributional framing of accounting outcomes. Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 30 , p. 493 - 517 Posted: 2005
O Aktouf
Le management entre tradition et renouvellement (rev Posted: 1989
E D Almer , D R Philbrick , K H Rupley
What drives auditor selection?
Current Issues in Auditing , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. A26 - A42 Posted: 2014
Report of the task force on the quality of audits of governmental units Posted: 1987
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
127
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
514,660
130 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies