Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Use and Consequences of Perquisite Types in Nonprofit Organizations

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 39, 2020

50 Pages Posted: 31 Aug 2021

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Date Written: February 4, 2020

Abstract

We document perquisite use in the nonprofit sector, the determinants of that use, and the ensuing consequences. Relative to the for-profit sector, the nonprofit sector is characterized by a lack of residual ownership rights and less detailed disclosure requirements, factors that have the potential to influence this piece of the compensation package. Using a sample of over 126,000 organization-year observations from 2008-2018, we document that approximately 24 percent of organizations report providing one or more of their executives with perquisites. We find that perks are more likely in larger nonprofits with excess endowments and fewer governance policies, and less likely at organizations with more outside monitors. We also find that in the aggregate perk disclosure has a negative impact on future donations. However, when we decompose our analysis by type of perk we find evidence that some perks have a positive effect on future donations. Our results are robust to a variety of alternative formulations and provide useful insights for nonprofit regulators, boards, and donors.

Keywords: executive compensation, nonprofit organizations, perquisites

JEL Classification: L30, L31, M41

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Harris, Erica and Saxton, Gregory D., The Use and Consequences of Perquisite Types in Nonprofit Organizations (February 4, 2020). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 39, 2020, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3902900
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: Size, performance, and managerial incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , p. 466 - 487 Posted: 2012
R C Anderson , D M Reeb , A Upadhyay , W Zhao
The economics of director heterogeneity
Financial Management , volume 40 , p. 5 - 38 Posted: 2011
A Andrews , S Linn , H Yi ; Balsam , S , E E Harris
The impact of CEO compensation on nonprofit donations
Corporate Governance and Executive Perquisites: Evidence from the New SEC Disclosure Rules , volume 89 , p. 425 - 450 Posted: 2009
L Bebchuk , J Fried , L
Pay without performance: The unfulfilled promise of executive compensation
Leading with intent: A national index of nonprofit board practices Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
674
RANK
765,896
4 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies