Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting in Public Organizations: The Influence of Managerial and Political Aspects

European Accounting Review

51 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2021

Carmen Aranda

University of Navarra - Business

Javier Arellano

Universidad de Navarra

Tony Davila

University of Navarra - IESE Business School

Date Written: August 18, 2021

Abstract

We study the use of budgets in public organizations with governance shaped by democratic structures. In particular, we examine political variables—electoral cycle, majority government, and ideology—and managerial variables—past performance and peer performance—in the context of city governments. Using data from 170 municipalities over a period of seven years (two electoral cycles), the study documents the simultaneous effect of these two types of variables. We find evidence that budget increases are more pronounced right before and right after elections (political). Furthermore, our findings suggest that ideology affects not only resource allocation decisions but also how municipalities manage the budgeting process; indicating the potential role of ideology in management practices (political). We also find evidence for ratcheting (managerial): deviation between last period’s actual and budgeted performance is associated with upcoming budgets. However, this effect is symmetric, in contrast to the more common asymmetric structure previously documented in for-profit organizations. Relative target setting (managerial) is also present in public organizations and varies with the relative debt level of the city. The findings of this study are also informative to for-profit organizations as they open up their governance to more democratic structures and begin to experience the competing managerial and political logics in interacting with stakeholders.

Keywords: Public Management, Informativeness, Ratcheting, Relative Target Setting, Political and Managerial Logics

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Aranda, Carmen and Arellano, Javier and Davila, Antonio, Budgeting in Public Organizations: The Influence of Managerial and Political Aspects (August 18, 2021). European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907273
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
115 References
B Adam , C Behm
The use of budget reforms to modernize governance in German local government , volume 26 , p. 217 - 220 Posted: 2006
A Albuquerque
Peer firms in relative performance evaluation
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 48 , issue 1 , p. 69 - 89 Posted: 2009
K Andersen , E Anessi-Pessina , C Barbera , M Sicilia , I Steccolini
Public sector budgeting: a European review of accounting and public management journals
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 29 , issue 3 , p. 491 - 519 Posted: 2016
R Antle , A Smith
An empirical investigation of the relative performance evaluation of corporate executives
Journal of Accounting Research , p. 1 - 39 Posted: 1986
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
142
ABSTRACT VIEWS
563
RANK
469,965
115 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies