Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiscal decentralization, regional disparity, and the role of corruption

Posted: 21 Aug 2021

Nupur Nirola

OP Jindal Global University

Sohini Sahu

Independent

Atrayee Choudhury

Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur - Department of Economic Sciences

Date Written: June 22, 2020

Abstract

In this study, we examine how efforts taken by states to combat corruption act as a mediator in the relationship between fiscal decentralization and regional income disparities. Fiscal decentralization may affect regional disparities via access to funding, but corruption could limit the ability to efficiently transfer fiscal resources. India is one of the most decentralized nations of the world and also exhibits high regional disparities. Under this scenario, we estimate whether institutions, in the form of anti-corruption efforts by the states, interact with fiscal decentralization in impacting divergence across states of India. We find that fiscal decentralization reduces the disparity across states, and the effect of fiscal decentralization is stronger under efforts to control corruption by state-vigilance bodies. The results are robust across different specifications of fiscal decentralization and alternate estimation methods accounting for endogeneity. From the policy perspective, in order to harness the potential benefits of decentralization to reduce regional income disparities, governments should focus on improving the quality of institutions through control on corruption at the sub-national level.

Keywords: Regional disparity, fiscal decentralization, corruption control, India

JEL Classification: H71, H72, H77

Suggested Citation:

Nirola, Nupur and Sahu, Sohini and Choudhury, Atrayee, Fiscal decentralization, regional disparity, and the role of corruption (June 22, 2020). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3907761
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
281
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies