Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Organizational Identity, Fixed Salary Contracts, and Financial Performance in Local Governments: Theory and Evidence

31 Pages Posted: 27 Aug 2021

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Toshiaki Wakabayashi

Sophia University - Faculty of Economics

Date Written: August 23, 2021

Abstract

This study explores the effect of financial managers’ organizational identity (OI) on improving financial performance under fixed salary contracts and balanced budget restrictions in Japanese local governments (LGs). LGs enter compensation contracts based on fixed salaries with financial managers and demonstrate a strict fiscal policy based on balanced budget restrictions. How and under what conditions should OI contribute to improving financial performance in LGs? In the context of financial managers in Japanese LGs, we place organizational identities using the principal (mayor)–agent (financial manager) model under fixed salary contracts and a strict fiscal policy. Our mathematical results reveal that the impact of OI on financial performance in LGs depends on the extent of a strict fiscal policy and the reserve fund. Studying 452 survey responses of financial managers in Japanese LGs, we find evidence consistent with our hypotheses based on the theoretical model. The result contributes to management and government accounting studies by showing that the extent of financial policies and the reserve fund are drivers for OI to work effectively on improving financial performance in governments.

Keywords: organizational identity; local government; financial performance; balanced budget restriction; reserve fund

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto and Wakabayashi, Toshiaki, Organizational Identity, Fixed Salary Contracts, and Financial Performance in Local Governments: Theory and Evidence (August 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3909961 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3909961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
M A Abernethy , J Bouwens , P Kroos
Organization identity and earnings manipulation
Acc. Organ. Soc , volume 58 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2017
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity and the economics of organizations
J. Econ. Perspect , volume 19 , issue 1 , p. 9 - 32 Posted: 2005
G A Akerlof , R E Kranton
Identity Economics: How Our Identity Shapes Our Work, Wages and Well-being Posted: 2010
S Boivie , D Lange , M L Mcdonald , J D Westphal
Me or we: The effects of CEO organizational identification on agency costs
Acad. Manag. J , volume 54 , issue 3 , p. 551 - 576 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
115
ABSTRACT VIEWS
731
RANK
556,453
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies