Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
From Relationship Orientation to Task Orientation: On the Digitalisation of Clinical Leaders

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 27 Sep 2021

Elsa Solstad

UIT The Arctic University of Norway

Date Written: August 26, 2021

Abstract

This paper studies how clinical leaders perceive their leadership tasks in the context of virtual interactions. We ask whether distant leadership involves a shift from relationship orientation to more task- and control-oriented leaders in hospital settings. We explore two cases involving 10 clinical leaders in a university hospital in Norway. The study indicates that the leaders were aware that lack of direct communication hampers relationship-oriented leadership, which weakens efforts to develop a common identity in the clinics. The absence of direct communication reduces opportunities for relationship-oriented leadership, which may hamper the development of social and self-controls in professional organisations. However, clinical leaders are dependent on professionals’ social and self-controls to perform at high levels. Large distances reduce leaders’ ability to build personal relations with their staff. On the other hand, professionals in healthcare are highly educated, and thus they are to a large degree self- governed. The possible effects of distant leadership may consequently not be that harmful in clinical settings.


Keywords: leadership, control, communication, distant leadership, hospitals

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Solstad, Elsa, From Relationship Orientation to Task Orientation: On the Digitalisation of Clinical Leaders (August 26, 2021). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911745
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
157
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Parties, Interest Groups & Other Political Organizations eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies