Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Contrasting Public Perceptions of Government Versus Certified Public Accounting Firm Oversight of Relief Packages

Forthcoming, Accounting and the Public Interest. DOI: https://doi.org/10.2308/API-2020-019

46 Pages Posted: 28 Aug 2021 Last revised: 16 Feb 2023

Brett A. Rixom

University of Nevada, Reno - College of Business

Jessica Rixom

University of Nevada, Reno

Sonja Pippin

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Jeffrey Wong

University of Nevada, Reno - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Date Written: August 26, 2021

Abstract

This study examines public perceptions of potential overseers charged with ensuring that relief packages are distributed to the intended audience. In an experiment, we assess perceptions of trustworthiness and fraud reduction ability between government and public accounting firm employees in the context of relief package oversight. While actual ability is important, public perceptions of overseer ability is also essential for relief packages to be fully effective. We find that people, regardless of their political party affiliation, rate public accounting firm employees as more trustworthy and better able to reduce fraud than government employees. For government oversight, participant political party affiliation influences perceptions of employee ability and is mediated by general trust in government. These findings suggest public accounting firms are a viable alternative to increase public perceptions that relief packages are distributed effectively. Initial evidence suggests educating the public on the role of career government employees may raise public opinion.

Keywords: Public Perceptions, Government Oversight, Public Accounting Firm Oversight, Relief Programs

JEL Classification: Roles of Government, National Subsidies, Policy Making

Suggested Citation:

Rixom, Brett A. and Rixom, Jessica and Pippin, Sonja and Wong, Jeffrey, Contrasting Public Perceptions of Government Versus Certified Public Accounting Firm Oversight of Relief Packages (August 26, 2021). Forthcoming, Accounting and the Public Interest. DOI: https://doi.org/10.2308/API-2020-019, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3911967 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911967
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
A Adamczyk
Here's what's in the $1.9 trillion American rescue plan that just passed the House. CNBC Posted: 2021-02-27
N E Adler , E S Epel , G Castellazzo , J R Ickovics
Relationship of subjective and objective social status with psychological and physiological functioning: Preliminary data in healthy white women
Health Psychology , volume 19 , issue 6 , p. 586 - 592 Posted: 2000
N Agrawal , D Maheswaran
Motivated reasoning in outcome-bias effects
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 31 , issue 4 , p. 789 - 805 Posted: 2005
Code of professional conduct Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
620
RANK
864,457
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies