Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Management Control Shapes Interorganizational Relationships The Case of the Introduction of a Dashboard in the Health and Social Care Sector

Lemaire Célia, "When Management Control Shapes Interorganizational Relationships. The Case of the Introduction of a Dashboard in the Health and Social Care Sector", Accounting Auditing Control, 2021/3 (Volume 27), p. 7-40. URL: https://www.cairn-int.info/journal-accounting-auditing-control-2021-3-pa

32 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2021

Célia Lemaire

University of Strasbourg - EM Strasbourg Business School

Date Written: September 06, 2021

Abstract

Thee objective of the article is to show the role of management control systems (MCSs) in the construction of inter-organizational relationships (IORs). Based on a qualitative study of the implementation of a dashboard in the health and social care sector, the results show that the introduction of an MCS helps to shape the IORs by initiating them, formalizing them and projecting the relationships that each organization has with the de nition of performance conveyed by the MCS. Showing that the purpose of the control is nourished by the ambivalence of the relationship the organizations have with the MCS, the article also contributes to the literature regarding the diffusion of a performance, including competition and optimization based on quantified results among the priority concerns of the actors of the sector. The research highlights the mechanisms through which the MCS change values initially far removed from the culture of a sector, into acceptable, indisputable and inescapable values.

Keywords: management control systems, inter-organizational relationships, health and social care facilities and services, ambivalence

JEL Classification: M40, M10, M00, I18

Suggested Citation:

Lemaire, Célia, When Management Control Shapes Interorganizational Relationships The Case of the Introduction of a Dashboard in the Health and Social Care Sector (September 06, 2021). Lemaire Célia, "When Management Control Shapes Interorganizational Relationships. The Case of the Introduction of a Dashboard in the Health and Social Care Sector", Accounting Auditing Control, 2021/3 (Volume 27), p. 7-40. URL: https://www.cairn-int.info/journal-accounting-auditing-control-2021-3-pa, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3926780
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
82 References
H Agndal , U Nilsson
Different open book accounting practices for different purchasing strategies
Management Accounting Research , volume 21 , issue 3 , p. 147 - 166 Posted: 2010
H Agndal , U Nilsson
The fast and the furious: The role of entrainment in controlled inter-organizational relationship transformation
Management Accounting Research , volume 43 , p. 15 - 28 Posted: 2019
S W Anderson , H C Dekker , A Van Den Abbeele
Costly control: An examination of the trade-off between control investments and residual risk in interfirm transactions
Management Science , p. 2049 - 2395 Posted: 2016
S Audier
Neo-liberalisme(s): Une archéologie intellectuelle Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
298
82 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies