Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Estimating the Effect of Immigration on Public Finances: Evidence from the Influx of Venezuelan Migrants to Colombia

64 Pages Posted: 24 Sep 2021 Last revised: 16 Jul 2025

Carlos A. Mesa-Guerra

Cornell University

Tomás Ramírez-Tobón

Harvard University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 08, 2025

Abstract

What is the fiscal impact of immigration on all levels of government? We study this question using the large and sudden increase in Venezuelan immigration to Colombia from 2013 to 2018. Over a million Venezuelan-born individuals and roughly 350 thousand native-born returnees moved to Colombia during this period. Our findings indicate that while immigrants tend to have less access to, and make lower use of, the welfare system, they have lower net fiscal contributions relative to natives overall, driven by lower contributions to regional and local government budgets. However, relative to the size of the economy, their overall fiscal effect is small. Lower fiscal contributions by immigrants are explained entirely by recent arrivals. Immigrants that have been in the country for more than a year have—if any—a better per capita fiscal position relative to natives. We show that the fiscal effect on local budgets is mediated by two forces: cities’ fiscal effort (i.e., the ability to raise revenues from their own sources) and the fraction of immigrant inflows in the local population.


Keywords: immigration, public finances, public goods, local governments

JEL Classification: H41, H50, H70, J15

Suggested Citation:

Mesa-Guerra, Carlos A. and Ramírez-Tobón, Tomás, Estimating the Effect of Immigration on Public Finances: Evidence from the Influx of Venezuelan Migrants to Colombia (April 08, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3927396 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3927396
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
J D Angrist , J.-S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
A Auerbach , P Oreopoulos
Analyzing the fiscal impact of US immigration
American Economic Review , volume 89 , issue 2 , p. 176 - 180 Posted: 1999
J Ávila-Mahecha
Tarifas efectivas promedio de las personas jurídicas -Año
Cuadernos de Trabajo Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales , volume 58 Posted: 2013
A Barrett , Y Mccarthy
Immigrants and welfare programmes: exploring the interaction between immigrants' characteristics, immigrant welfare dependence and welfare policy
Oxford Review of Economic Policy , volume 24 , issue 3 , p. 542 - 559 Posted: 2008
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
159
ABSTRACT VIEWS
743
RANK
377,290
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies