Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Fraud Detection and Prevention Techniques From A Leader’s Perspective: A Q-Methodology Study

156 Pages Posted: 18 Nov 2021

Dr. DiMaris Medina-Cortes

Columbia Southern University

Date Written: February 19, 2021

Abstract

The research explored NO leaders' perspectives on fraud detection and prevention in the State of Ohio, a q-methodology study. Fraud has such a massive effect on NPOs who experience occupational fraud due to lack of internal controls, and NPOs lack reporting the crime to law enforcement. Previous studies focused on qualitative research of internal controls of small businesses in Louisiana, religious leaders who lack the implementation of internal controls to minimize fraud in New Jersey, and a study in South Carolina examined accounting fraud awareness. For this study's purposes, the researcher used 36 statements collected from the concourse statement to understand better NPO leaders' perspectives on NPO fraud detection and prevention internal controls. NPOs need to deploy strong internal controls and reach out to outside assistance to minimize fraud in order to safeguard the NPO assets.

Keywords: nonprofit fraud, whitecollar crime

Suggested Citation:

Medina-Cortes, DiMaris, Nonprofit Fraud Detection and Prevention Techniques From A Leader’s Perspective: A Q-Methodology Study (February 19, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3952949 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3952949
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
237 References
H Abdi
Factor rotations in factor analyses
Encyclopedia for Research Methods for the Social Sciences , p. 792 - 795 Posted: 2003
M Albashrawi
Detecting financial fraud using data mining techniques: A decade review from 2004 to
Journal of Data Science , volume 14 , issue 3 , p. 553 - 569 Posted: 2015
F Alorhiri , R Giordano , A Borthwick
Relationship between leadership style and organizational culture with intention to leave expatriates in Saudi health care system
Journal of Organizational Studies & Innovation , volume 6 , issue 3 , p. 1 - 11 Posted: 2019
O E Amah
Leadership styles & relational energy in high quality mentoring relationship
Indian Journal of Industrial Relations , volume 53 , issue 1 , p. 59 - 71 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
152
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,104
RANK
444,118
237 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Forensic Accounting eJournal

Follow

Law & Society: Public Law - Crime, Criminal Law, & Punishment eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies