Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Post-Corona Balanced-Budget Super-Stimulus: The Case for Shifting Taxes Onto Land

CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16652

89 Pages Posted: 9 Nov 2021

Charles Goodhart

London School of Economics & Political Science (LSE) - Financial Markets Group

Michael Hudson

Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR)

Michael Kumhof

CEPR

T. Nicolaus Tideman

Virginia Tech - Department of Economics

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: October 1, 2021

Abstract

The post-Corona economic environment puts a premium on finding fiscal means to stimulate the economy while continuing to finance current levels of expenditures and debt. We develop and carefully calibrate a model of the US economy to show that an increase in the tax rate on the value of land, balanced by decreases in the tax rates on the incomes of capital and labor, can meet this need. We find that the US share of land in total nonfinancial assets is more than 50%, so that the tax base is very large. This is corroborated by very high quality OECD data for other industrialized economies that, almost without exception, find land shares of between 40% and 60%. Our baseline proposed tax reform is an increase in the tax rate on the asset value of land from its current 0.55% to 5.55%, accompanied by reductions in tax rates on capital and labor incomes of 28 and 10 percentage points, respectively. In a representative household model, this increases welfare by 3.4% of steady state consumption, and increases output by almost 15% relative to trend. In an economy with separate groups of workers, capitalists and landlords, the output gain is the same, while the welfare gain increases to 6.4% on average across the three groups. Welfare and output gains for a wealth tax that raises the same revenue, and which increases the tax rates on capital and land equally, are only half as large as the baseline. Welfare and output gains for an optimal tax reform, under the assumption that the tax rate on the value of land is capped at 20%, are approximately twice as large as the baseline. This reform raises 55% of all tax revenue through land taxes, with the remaining 45% raised through consumption taxes, while all income taxes are abolished.

Keywords: Balanced Budget, Capital income taxation, fiscal stimulus, labor income taxation, Land asset value taxation, land rental value taxation, Rent, unearned income

JEL Classification: E62, H21, H61

Suggested Citation:

Goodhart, Charles A.E. and Hudson, Michael and Kumhof, Michael and Tideman, T. Nicolaus, Post-Corona Balanced-Budget Super-Stimulus: The Case for Shifting Taxes Onto Land (October 1, 2021). CEPR Discussion Paper No. DP16652, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3960235
Purchase - $8
CEPR Subscribers Download
170 References
R Andelson
Land Value Taxation Around the World Posted: 2000
A Admati , M Hellwig
The Bankers' New Clothes: What's Wrong with Banking and What to Do about It Posted: 2014
A Advani , E Chamberlain , A Summers
A Wealth Tax for the UK Posted: 2020
G Ahlfeldt , D Mcmillen
New Estimates of the Elasticity of Substitution of Land for Capital
Valuation and Assessment of Immovable Property , volume 1 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
3
ABSTRACT VIEWS
956
170 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

CEPR Discussion Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 


Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies