Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Factors in the Choice of Fiscal Governance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda

Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 14 Nov 2021 Last revised: 1 Dec 2021

Girley Damasceno

University of Brasilia

Ricardo Gomes

Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV)

Date Written: November 29, 2021

Abstract

The fiscal governance framework includes the rules and regulations that discipline the preparation, approval, and implementation of public budgets. It results from the power struggle of the actors that participate in the process of allocating public resources. Despite relevant studies published on the subject, this study aimed to provide background information on determinant factors in the choice and effects of fiscal governance framework adopted by governments in the scholarly conversation. For this, the systematic literature review method was adopted with the development of five steps: selecting a review topic, searching the literature, gathering, reading, and analysing the scientific papers published in the last ten years on the subject. Results show that fiscal crises and pressures and rewards of external bodies were the preponderant factors for reforms in the framework of fiscal governance adopted by governments. In another view, impacts of this framework on national public finances were investigated primarily by analysis of numerical fiscal rules. The research gaps identified indicate directions for future research.

Keywords: Fiscal Governance, Public Budget, Governance Framework, Determinant Factors, Public Finance

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Damasceno, Girley and Gomes, Ricardo, Factors in the Choice of Fiscal Governance: A Systematic Literature Review and Future Research Agenda (November 29, 2021). Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3962904
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
400
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies