Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Mitigating Pension Stress? The Impact of Public Pensions on Services, Equity, and Employees

40 Pages Posted: 14 Dec 2021 Last revised: 4 Apr 2022

Manita Rao

University of Southern California; AARP Public Policy Institute

Date Written: January 12, 2022

Abstract

The shadow of unfunded public pensions has raised concerns on its consequences for citizens and cities. Some have argued that unfunded pensions will crowd out urban services while others propose that the effects are limited to public employees. This article empirically examines the extent to which the stress of unfunded pensions is mitigated or demonstrates spillovers to services, equity, and employees. Employing a novel identification strategy and over two decades of new data on city-sponsored pensions (1997–2018), I provide forward-looking causal estimates on the short- and long-term effects of unfunded pensions on cities. I find that unfunded pensions have significant spillovers to urban services including public safety and economic development with the most acute impact on redistribution. Further, decline in pension generosity indicates spillovers to public employees, and contrary to political economy theory, pension stress explains impact on unions. Although the spillovers to urban outcomes are partially mitigated by asset returns to pension fund investments, these effects are highly persistent.

Keywords: Public pensions, local government, public unions, pension management, social equity

JEL Classification: D73, D78, H83, R51

Suggested Citation:

Rao, Manita, Mitigating Pension Stress? The Impact of Public Pensions on Services, Equity, and Employees (January 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3980117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3980117
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
Carolyn Abott
Public Sector Unions, Partisanship, and Pensions in the US States Posted: 2015
Aleksandar Andonov , Yael V Hochberg , Joshua D Rauh
Political representation and governance: Evidence from the investment decisions of public pension funds
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , issue 5 , p. 2041 - 2086 Posted: 2018
Sarah F Anzia , Terry M Moe
Public sector unions and the costs of government
The Journal of Politics , volume 77 , issue 1 , p. 114 - 127 Posted: 2015
Polarization and policy: The politics of public-sector pensions
Legislative Studies Quarterly , volume 42 , issue 1 , p. 33 - 62 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
102
ABSTRACT VIEWS
745
RANK
609,870
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies