Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Decision Usefulness: A Re-Examination of the Information Needs of Nonprofit GPFR Users

14 Pages Posted: 21 Feb 2022

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Andrew West

School of Accountancy, QUT Business School

Yuyu Zhang

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Date Written: December 23, 2021

Abstract

The extent to which financial reports are decision useful is of central importance in relation to the accounting standards that underpin them. This is as true of nonprofit financial reporting as it is of financial reporting in the commercial and public sectors. In this paper we report on our findings related to a research project focused on examining the decision usefulness of Australian accounting standards from the point of view of nonprofit Users, Preparers and Auditors. Undertaking a series of round tables specific to each cohort, we examine the question of who is accountable, for what and to whom in the context of financial reporting. Our research reinforced a number of issues negatively impacting the ability of General Purpose Financial Reports to facilitate decision making in the nonprofit sector. However, we also identified a number of new issues related to financial reporting generally and current and prospective accounting standards specifically. Some of these phenomena appear to have manifested as a result of the impact of COVID and some of which are impacted by a changing funding environment. Overall, the project found that there are manifest specific issues and aspects which are particular to the sector and that need to be considered by standard setters in considering future frameworks and standards themselves.

Keywords: Nonprofit, Charities, NFP Accounting Standards, Decision Usefulness

Suggested Citation:

Gilchrist, David and West, Andrew and Zhang, Yuyu, Decision Usefulness: A Re-Examination of the Information Needs of Nonprofit GPFR Users (December 23, 2021). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3992184 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3992184
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
L Crawford , G G Morgan , C J Cordery
Accountability and not-for-profit organisations: Implications for developing international financial reporting standards. Financial accountability & management , volume 34 , p. 181 - 205 Posted: 2018
A Dhanani , C Connolly
Discharging not-for-profit accountability: UK charities and public discourse
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 25 , issue 7 , p. 1140 - 1169 Posted: 2012
W M Evan , R E Freeman , T Beauchamp , N Bowie
A Stakeholder Theory of the Modern Corporation: Kantian Capitalism
Ethical Theory and Business , p. 97 - 106 Posted: 1988
D Gilchrist , T.-T S Andrew Podger , John Wanna , Hon S Chan , Meili Niu
All the Best Intentions: A Review of a Sub-National Attempt at Reshaping the Not-forprofit/Public Sector Nexus
Designing Governance Structures for Performance and Accountability: Developments in Australia and Greater China Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
772
RANK
403,165
2 Citations
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies