Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Elusive Fiscal Commons: Examining Fiscal Interaction among Overlapping Governments

59 Pages Posted: 10 Jan 2022 Last revised: 8 Aug 2023

Lang Kate Yang

George Washington University - Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration

Jinhai Yu

School of Public Policy, University of Connecticut

Xin Chen

School of Government, Sun Yat-sen University

Date Written: August 2, 2023

Abstract

Public finance theories postulate that the fiscal decisions of one government influence the decisions of other horizontally or vertically related governments. Vertically overlapping governments share the same tax base. The theoretical prediction of vertical spillover is ambiguous and the empirical evidence is thin. This paper addresses empirical challenges in fiscal spillover research by using a regression discontinuity design. We focus on local government bond referendums in Texas and identify the effect of exogenous increases in debt and property taxes induced by successful bond measures. We find no evidence of spillovers for overlapping government outcomes related to bond measures, election results, property taxes, or overall revenue, spending, and indebtedness. Successful bond measures do not affect the shared property tax base, which suggests that the benefit view of property tax may explain the lack of vertical spillover.

Keywords: Fiscal Competition, Government Bond, Overlapping Governments, Fiscal Commons

JEL Classification: H11, H23, H73, H74

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Lang Kate and Yu, Jinhai and Chen, Xin, The Elusive Fiscal Commons: Examining Fiscal Interaction among Overlapping Governments (August 2, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4002573 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4002573
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
D R Agrawal
Local fiscal competition: An application to sales taxation with multiple federations
Journal of Urban Economics , volume 91 , p. 122 - 138 Posted: 2016
A C Barr , T S Dee
Property taxes and politicians: evidence from school budget elections
National Tax Journal , volume 69 , issue 3 , p. 517 - 544 Posted: 2016
C Berry
Piling on: Multilevel government and the fiscal common-pool
American Journal of Political Science , volume 52 , issue 4 , p. 802 - 820 Posted: 2008
T Besley , A Case
Incumbent behavior: Vote-seeking, tax-setting, and yardstick competition
The American Economic Review Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,271
RANK
708,207
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Publicly Provided Goods eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies