Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Composite Index of Local Fiscal Stability, Efficiency, Sustainability, and Livability: Central Eastern versus South Eastern European Countries

Posted: 10 Jan 2022

Aleksandra maksimovska

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Aleksandar Stojkov

Ss. Cyril and Methodius University, Faculty of Law

Michal Radvan

Masaryk University - Faculty of Law

Tereza Rogic Lugaric

University of Zagreb - Faculty of Law

Date Written: January 10, 2022

Abstract

Citizen-centric local governance requires fiscally stable and efficient local governments that contribute to sustainable and livable communities. The central research objective herein is to provide an assessment of the progress made by local governments across four dimensions: fiscal stability (F), efficiency (E), sustainability (S), and livability (L), using a composite index that relies on quantitative indicators. This study compares 12 countries divided into two regions (Central Eastern versus South Eastern Europe) that share similar historical, legal, and socio-economic backgrounds but differ in the pace of reforms. The progress of each country and region is compared in a broader context of 35 European countries. More specific research questions include determining: what the most influential factors are for explaining significant cross-country differences; whether a greater reliance on property taxes has been associated with more FESL progress; what frontrunning countries have in common; and whether larger fiscal resources and their more efficient use automatically translate into progress in promoting the sustainability and livability of communities.

Keywords: property taxation; fiscal stability; efficiency; sustainability; livability

JEL Classification: K34

Suggested Citation:

maksimovska, Aleksandra and Stojkov, Aleksandar and Radvan, Michal and Rogic Lugaric, Tereza, Composite Index of Local Fiscal Stability, Efficiency, Sustainability, and Livability: Central Eastern versus South Eastern European Countries (January 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4005564
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
309
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Comparative Law & Trans-National Studies eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies