Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Fiscal Policy and Optimal Taxation in Sierra Leone: Testing for Tax Smoothing Hypothesis

International Journal of Economics and Finance Archives Vol. 14, No. 2

14 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2022

Samuel Bonzu

Ministry of Finance, Sierra Leone

Date Written: January 7, 2022

Abstract

This paper empirically investigates whether the budget imbalances in Sierra Leone over the review period is consistent with optimal tax policy. The procedure involves testing if tax smoothing hypothesis hold for Sierra Leone. In this regard, three different empirical approaches were performed. Firstly, I examine the random walk property of the tax rate. The null hypothesis of non-stationarity of tax rate could not be rejected, which implies the tax rate follows random walk. Second, I examined whether changes in tax rate is predictable by regressing changes in tax rate by its own lagged values. The result shows that tax rate is unpredictable, as changes in tax cannot be determined by its lagged values. Finally, a VAR model was employed to examine whether tax rate can be predicted by its own lagged values together with changes in the government spending rate and the growth rate of real GDP. The results indicate that all the variables employed were found not be significant is predicating the tax rate. Overall, all the empirical estimations support the existence of tax smoothing over the sample period and that the budget imbalances over the review period is consistent with optimal tax policy.

Keywords: fiscal sustainability, budget deficits, public debt

JEL Classification: H20, H21,E62,]

Suggested Citation:

Bonzu, Samuel, Fiscal Policy and Optimal Taxation in Sierra Leone: Testing for Tax Smoothing Hypothesis (January 7, 2022). International Journal of Economics and Finance Archives Vol. 14, No. 2, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009463
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
G Abuselidze
The influence of optimal tax burden on economic activity and production capacity
Intelektinė ekonomika , volume 6 , issue 4 , p. 493 - 503 Posted: 2012
C Agiakloglou , P Newbold
Empirical evidence on Dickey-Fuller-type tests
Journal of Time Series Analysis , volume 13 , issue 6 , p. 471 - 483 Posted: 1992
J Ashworth , L Evans
Seigniorage and tax smoothing in developing countries
Journal of Economic Studies Posted: 1998
R J Barro
On the determination of the public debt
Journal of political Economy , volume 87 , issue 5 , p. 940 - 971 Posted: 1979
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
62
ABSTRACT VIEWS
312
RANK
826,677
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies