Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Cybersecurity Risk Assessment Platform for State Government

17 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2022 Last revised: 19 Apr 2022

Ken Dolan

State of Arkansas

Date Written: April 15, 2022

Abstract

A working knowledge of cybersecurity by high-level stakeholders is necessary for the effective management of complex digital infrastructures. High-level stakeholders within state government must strengthen cybersecurity platforms and prepare for the consequences of inevitable failures. This paper presents a communication platform for bridging the gap between stakeholders and cybersecurity professionals. The tool incorporates the evaluative framework described in the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-53 and NIST 800-171 as a basis for comparison to a series of best- practice cybersecurity toolsets. The implementation stage and level of importance of each NIST subcategory is also recorded. A description of how the resulting information is incorporated into the strategic planning process is provided, as well as a discussion of how the risk information is used in support of a common risk treatment alternative (insurance).


Keywords: cybersecurity insurance, state government cybersecurity, cybersecurity, enterprise risk, enterprise, insurance, cyber insurance, information security, cybersecurity policy

Suggested Citation:

Dolan, Kenneth, Cybersecurity Risk Assessment Platform for State Government (April 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4009348 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4009348
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
14 References
Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT)
CIS Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense (CIS Controls
Security for Industrial Automation and Control Systems: Establishing an Industrial Automation and Control Systems Security Program
-NIST Special Publication 800-53 Revision 4, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations , volume 22 Posted: 2013-04
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
725
RANK
484,103
14 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Property, Casualty & Life Insurance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies