Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Accounting for Cultural Capital - Sustainability Agenda of Charities Serving the First Nations People towards Self-Determination - Evidence from the Northern Territory, Australia

Sustainability Vol. 14, No. 2, Article 949. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14020949.

16 Pages Posted: 15 Mar 2022

Indra Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com)

Ton Duc Thang University

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: 2022

Abstract

This study examined the role of the First Nations beneficiary charities in contributing to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the Northern Territory, Australia, as a way of attaining self-determination by closing the expectations gap between First Nations people and the mainstream Australians. Informed by the theory of self-determination (ethical and functional strands), a latent content analysis of 118 charities serving the First Nations people was conducted, coding the summary of their activities to ascertain their strategic engagement with the SDGs. A network analysis was also carried out to examine the charities’ connections with each other and their collective contribution towards the SDGs. The findings show that charities contribute to creating cultural capital through social capital, followed by intellectual capital dimensions. However, charities contributed little to building environmental capital dimension of the First Nations people. This study examined charities’ engagement with SDGs to build cultural capital in furtherance of self-determination of Australia’s First Nations people.

Keywords: Australia, charities, cultural capital, environmental capital, intellectual capital, Northern Territory, self-determination, social capital, sustainability reporting, United Nations sustainable development goals

Suggested Citation:

Abeysekera (indraabeysekera@gmail.com), Indra, Accounting for Cultural Capital - Sustainability Agenda of Charities Serving the First Nations People towards Self-Determination - Evidence from the Northern Territory, Australia (2022). Sustainability Vol. 14, No. 2, Article 949. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14020949. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4010675
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
52 References
A Dew , R Barton , J Gilroy , L Ryall , M Lincoln , H Jensen , V Flood , K Taylor , K Mccrae
Importance of Land, family and culture for a good life: Remote Aboriginal people with disability and carers
Aust. J. Soc. Issues , volume 55 , p. 418 - 438 Posted: 2019
K Usher , D Jackson , R Walker , J Durkin , R Smallwood , M Robinson , U N Sampson , I Adams , C Porter , R Marriott
Indigenous Resilience in Australia: A Scoping Review Using a Reflective Decolonizing Collective Dialogue. Front. Public Health , volume 9 Posted: 2021-01-11
Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People (AIATSIS) Posted: 2021-11-28
United Nations Human Rights, Office of the High Commissioner. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights Posted: 2021-11-27
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
380
52 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

NGO & Non-Profit Organizations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies