Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Future of Auditing Research in the Public Sector

Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 33 No. 2, pp. 234-242. https://doi.org/10.1108/JPBAFM-09-2020-0164

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series

Posted: 25 Jan 2022

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Date Written: 2020

Abstract

Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to review opportunities for future research about auditing in the public sector.

Design/methodology/approach
The paper presents the viewpoints of two researchers, supported by research that is cited in the paper.

Findings
Public sector auditing research has grown considerably. The authors expect further growth. The authors debunk some myths about public sector auditing. The authors suggest areas where there are opportunities for research. In particular, researchers can examine a broader range of jurisdictions, investigate differences among countries and develop suggestions about what works best.

Research limitations/implications
The paper presents the views of the authors.

Practical implications
There are opportunities for further research across different jurisdictions.

Originality/value
The paper makes a contribution by outlining research opportunities.

Full paper available at https://doi.org/10.1108/JPBAFM-09-2020-0164

Keywords: Auditing, Public sector, Accounting, Governmental, Supreme audit institutions

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Cordery, Carolyn J., The Future of Auditing Research in the Public Sector (2020). Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management, Vol. 33 No. 2, pp. 234-242. https://doi.org/10.1108/JPBAFM-09-2020-0164 , The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper Series, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4015926
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
435
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies