Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Cost of Future Policy: Intertemporal Public Sector Balance Sheets in the G7

IMF Working Paper No. 2021/128

48 Pages Posted: 4 Feb 2022

Yugo Koshima

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Jason Harris

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Alexander F. Tieman

International Monetary Fund (IMF)

Alessandro De Sanctis

Independent

Date Written: May 1, 2021

Abstract

This paper compiles the Intertemporal Public Sector Balance Sheets for all G7 countries and examines their relationship with government borrowing costs. In 2018, all G7 countries have negative Intertemporal Net Financial Worth (INFW), falling short of their intertemporal budget constraint. A decomposition of the evolution of INFW shows that short-term fluctuations are mainly driven by fiscal policy changes, while in the long run demographic changes and health and pension obligations play a larger role. We find that on average a 10 percentage point of GDP increase in INFW reduces the (future) 10-1 year sovereign yield curve spread by 2.8 basis points. This results suggest that financial markets pay attention to governments’ future policy obligations, in addition to its current assets and liabilities.

Keywords: balance sheet framework, negative Intertemporal Net Financial Worth, INFW 0, evolution of INFW, INTERTEMPORAL NET, Financial statements, Health care spending, Fiscal stance, Pension spending, Global

JEL Classification: F31, E26, E62, H83, H51, H55

Suggested Citation:

Koshima, Yugo and Harris, Jason and Tieman, Alexander F. and De Sanctis, Alessandro, The Cost of Future Policy: Intertemporal Public Sector Balance Sheets in the G7 (May 1, 2021). IMF Working Paper No. 2021/128, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4026303
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
638
RANK
765,896
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

International Monetary Fund (IMF) Research Paper Series

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies