Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Role Expectations and Shared Accountability: A Framework for School Governance

Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 10 Mar 2022

Luisa Unda

Universitat de les Illes Balears; University of Mannheim

Zhiyun Gong

Monash University

Kelly Benati

Monash University

Chin Moi Loh

Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University) - School of Accounting and Law

Date Written: February 5, 2022

Abstract

This research examines how perceptions of shared accountability for performance arise in a context of role expectations and interpersonal exchanges. We use the education context to view accountability as involving elements of board’s and management’s role expectations, history of their relationship, and leadership governance mechanisms. Using Frink and Klimoski (2004)’s accountability role theory model, we explore governance roles, accountability practices, and school performance. We analyse interview data related to Board Chairs, Board members and Principals/Heads of Australian independent schools. We find that role expectations as well as the interpersonal exchanges (i.e., Board/Chair-Principal relationship) shape accountability perceptions regarding school performance. The findings offer insights into the links between role expectations, interpersonal factors, and accountability practices. We point to the need of having a shared accountability model between the Board and the Principal, which may lead to improvement in performance within the school context.

Keywords: Role expectations, Interpersonal Exchanges, Shared Accountability, Performance, Schools

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Unda, Luisa and Gong, Zhiyun and Benati, Kelly and Loh, Chin Moi, Role Expectations and Shared Accountability: A Framework for School Governance (February 5, 2022). Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4027611
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
316
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies