Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Municipal Capital Structure

48 Pages Posted: 16 Feb 2022

Murray Carlson

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Ron Giammarino

University of British Columbia (UBC) - Sauder School of Business

Robert L. Heinkel

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: February 10, 2022

Abstract

Municipalities provide infrastructure and essential services financed by taxes and debt. We develop a model of municipal capital structure, defined as the debt-to-investment ratio, that rests on two primary economic forces: the elasticity of the tax base with respect to taxes and services, and the process for resolving financial distress. We show how municipalities determine optimal financing, highlighting legal structures governing financial distress, state-by-state variation in allowance of workouts under bankruptcy law, and the pro-creditor leaning of courts. We show that municipalities that issue safe debt, for either political or behavioral reasons, decrease overall welfare.

Keywords: Municipal capital structure, municipal debt, municipal bankruptcy, infrastructure financing

JEL Classification: G32, G33, H21, H41

Suggested Citation:

Carlson, Murray D. and Giammarino, Ronald and L. Heinkel, Robert, Municipal Capital Structure (February 10, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4032097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4032097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
218
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,082
RANK
319,999
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Financial Law: Interdisciplinary Approaches eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies