Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Impact of Corporate Subsidies on Borrowing Costs of Local Governments: Evidence From Municipal Bonds

Review of Finance

94 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2022 Last revised: 23 May 2024

Sudheer Chava

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Baridhi Malakar

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Manpreet Singh

Georgia Institute of Technology

Date Written: November 30, 2019

Abstract

We analyze the impact of $38 billion of corporate subsidies given by U.S. local governments on their borrowing costs. We find that winning counties experience a 13.6 bps increase in bond yield spread as compared to the losing counties. The increase in yields is higher (16 -- 21 bps) when the subsidy deal is associated with a lower jobs multiplier or when the winning county has a lower debt capacity. However, a high jobs multiplier does not seem to alleviate the debt capacity constraints of local governments. Our results highlight the potential costs of corporate subsidies for the local governments.

Keywords: Corporate Subsidies, Municipal Debt

JEL Classification: G12, H25

Suggested Citation:

Chava, Sudheer and Malakar, Baridhi and Singh, Manpreet, Impact of Corporate Subsidies on Borrowing Costs of Local Governments: Evidence From Municipal Bonds (November 30, 2019). Review of Finance, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4035841 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4035841
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
M Adelino , I Cunha , M A Ferreira
The economic effects of public financing: Evidence from municipal bond ratings recalibration
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
B A Austin , E L Glaeser , L H Summers
Jobs for the heartland: Place-based policies in 21st century america Posted: 2018
T J Bartik
Making Sense of Incentives: Taming Business Incentives to Promote Prosperity Posted: 2019
D Bergstresser , R Cohen , S Shenai
Demographic fractionalization and the municipal bond market
Municipal Finance Journal , volume 34 , issue 3 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
244
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,137
RANK
286,433
11 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Capital Structure & Payout Policies eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies