Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Examination of the Relationship Between the Funded Status of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and the Financial Condition of Sponsoring Organizations – Public Vs Private Sector

Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 65-96 (2022)

32 Pages Posted: 5 Apr 2022

Janet F. Phillips

Southern Connecticut State University

Date Written: February 15, 2022

Abstract

Defined benefit pension plans are a bedrock of the U.S. economy providing guaranteed payment streams at pre-established amounts. Results suggest public plans, sponsored by State and Local governments, and private plans, sponsored by public corporations, are unfunded. State plans were found to have the largest pension and unfunded pension liabilities. Examination of relationships between unfunded pension liabilities and fiscal or financial stability of sponsoring organizations suggests unfunded State pension plans are more likely to be sponsored by financially struggling sponsors measured by general obligation bond ratings. Local governments and Corporations with unfunded pension plans are less likely to be struggling financially. Fiscal distress of Local governments was measured by survival analysis. Corporation financial distress was quantified by a model designed to predict bankruptcy. Financially stable organizations failing to fund pension plans, in this case local governments and corporations, suggests a lack of social responsibility.

Keywords: Defined benefit pension plans; unfunded pension liabilities; financial or fiscal distress; social responsibility

JEL Classification: H75, C12, C13, C15, C18

Suggested Citation:

Phillips, Janet F., An Examination of the Relationship Between the Funded Status of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and the Financial Condition of Sponsoring Organizations – Public Vs Private Sector (February 15, 2022). Journal of Accounting, Ethics and Public Policy 23(1): 65-96 (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4036011
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
667
RANK
605,468
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies