Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The SEC's September Spike: Regulatory Inconsistency within the Fiscal Year

Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming

72 Pages Posted: 26 Feb 2022 Last revised: 5 Aug 2023

Dain C. Donelson

University of Wisconsin-Madison - Department of Accounting and Information Systems

Matthew Kubic

University of Texas at Austin

Sara Toynbee

University of Texas at Austin

Date Written: August 4, 2023

Abstract

We examine whether performance reporting leads to inconsistent enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In a sample of over 13,000 SEC enforcement actions, we show that SEC staff respond to performance-reporting pressures and file more enforcement actions in September, the final month of the SEC’s fiscal year, than in any other month. The increase in case volume in September is not fully explained by staff filing more procedural cases or accelerating case filings. Instead, SEC staff pursue less complex cases and agree to more lenient financial and non-financial sanctions to increase case volume in September. We attempt to rule out alternative explanations for our results, including natural SEC workflow and resource constraints. Overall, our findings suggest that performance reporting creates agency conflicts that lead to regulatory inconsistency within the fiscal year.

Keywords: SEC enforcement, regulatory inconsistency, fiscal year, performance reporting

JEL Classification: H11, K22, K42, L51, M48

Suggested Citation:

Donelson, Dain C. and Kubic, Matthew and Toynbee, Sara, The SEC's September Spike: Regulatory Inconsistency within the Fiscal Year (August 4, 2023). Journal of Accounting & Economics (JAE), Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4041216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4041216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
J Anderson
Is the SEC tough enough? Posted: 2008-02
S Agarwal , D Lucca , A Seru , F Trebbi
Inconsistent regulators: Evidence from banking
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 129 , issue 2 , p. 889 - 938 Posted: 2014
J D Angrist , J S Pischke
Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist's companion Posted: 2009
S R Baker , N Bloom , S J Davis
Measuring economic policy uncertainty
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 131 , issue 4 , p. 1593 - 1636 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
597
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,704
RANK
103,847
9 Citations
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies