Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Determinants and Quality of Audits and Reviews of Small Charities’ Financial Statements

UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming

Posted: 8 Apr 2022

Yitang (Jenny) Yang

UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Roger Simnett

Deakin University; UNSW Australia Business School, School of Accounting

Date Written: February 25, 2022

Abstract

Using a random sample of 500 small charities in 2014, we identify the determinants of voluntarily lodging their annual financial report, and the likelihood of including an assurance report. 110 small charities lodge their annual financial report, with 56 including an audit/review report. Sequential logistic regression shows that lodging charities are larger, with higher levels of government grants and use accrual accounting. Additional factors explaining the inclusion of an audit/review report are the charity’s deductible gift recipient status and again the use of accrual accounting. 53 of these assurance engagements are audits, with only 3 being reviews. Second, we examine audit quality for those 53 which submit an audit report, and identify significant audit quality concerns, with for example only 18 (34.0 percent) fully complying with ASA700, but no specific characteristics are significant. Tracing the 110 submitting charities from 2014 to 2018, we identify little change in assurance level.

Keywords: Small charity, Audit quality, Audit engagements, Review engagements, Auditor reporting, Audit fees, Audit report lag

JEL Classification: M41, M42, M48, L31

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Yitang and Simnett, Roger, Determinants and Quality of Audits and Reviews of Small Charities’ Financial Statements (February 25, 2022). UNSW Business School Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4045124
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
289
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

UNSW Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies