Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Better Financial Reporting for Australian NFPs

43 Pages Posted: 9 Apr 2022

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Date Written: March 2, 20222

Abstract

This paper focuses on financial reporting for the Australian Not-for-profit and Charitable Sector. It is principally concerned with raising sector-wide participation in the national discussion pertaining to Australian Accounting Standards and their impact on the Sector’s financial reporting arrangements. It seeks to do this by identifying the key issues and problems (including problems associated with relevance and administrative burden) faced by the sector.

The paper is not seeking to provide answers, but rather raises a set of 13 core questions which are intended to facilitate the national discussion.

Ultimately, the answers to these questions should come from the sector, regulators and the broader community.

Keywords: Nonrofit; Charities; Financial Reporting

Suggested Citation:

Gilchrist, David, Better Financial Reporting for Australian NFPs (March 2, 20222). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4047961
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
52
ABSTRACT VIEWS
411
RANK
906,046
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit & Philanthropy Law eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies