Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Can NGO Accountability Practices be Improved with Technologies Such as Blockchain and Triple-entry Accounting?

Kuruppu, S., Dissanayake, D. & De Villiers, C. 2022. How can NGO accountability practices be improved with technologies such as blockchain and triple-entry accounting?, Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-10-2020-4972

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

47 Pages Posted: 28 Mar 2022

Sanjaya Kuruppu

University of South Australia

Dinithi Dissanayake

University of South Australia

Charl de Villiers

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: January 30, 2022

Abstract


Purpose: The purpose of this paper is to explore how blockchain and triple-entry accounting technologies may improve non-governmental organisation (NGO) accountability by amplifying the social and economic outcomes of aid. It also provides a critique of these technologies from an accountability perspective.

Design/methodology/approach: An in-depth case study of a large NGO, relying on semi-structured interviews, document analysis and non-participant observation, provides an understanding of current issues in existing NGO accountability and reporting systems. A novel case-conceptual critical analysis is then used to explore how blockchain and triple-entry accounting systems may potentially address some of the challenges identified with NGO accountability.

Findings: An empirical case study outlines the current processes which discharge accountability to a range of stakeholders, emphasising how ‘upward’ accountability is privileged over other forms. This provides a foundation to illustrate how new technology can improve upward accountability to donors by enabling more efficient, accurate and auditable record-keeping and reporting, creating space for an NGO to focus on horizontal accountability to partner organisations and downward accountability to beneficiaries. Greater accountability exposes NGOs to diverse views from partner organisations and beneficiaries, potentially enhancing opportunities for learning and growth, i.e. greater impact. However, blockchain and triple-entry accounting can also create ‘over-accounting’ and further entrench the power of upward stakeholders, such as donors, if not implemented carefully.

Research implications: A novel case-conceptual critical analysis furnishes new insights into how existing NGO accountability systems can be improved with technology. Despite the growing excitement about the possibilities of blockchain and triple-entry accounting systems, this paper offers a critical reflection on the limitations of these technologies and suggests avenues for future research.

Practical implications: Examples of how blockchain and triple-entry accounting systems can be integrated into NGO systems are presented. This research also raises the importance of creating a strong nexus between humans and technology, which ensures that ‘socialising’ forms of accountability that empower vulnerable stakeholders, are embedded into international aid.

Originality/value: This research provides insight into present challenges with NGO accountability, using empirical evidence, furnishing potential solutions using novel blockchain and triple-entry accounting systems. Greater accountability to partner organisations and beneficiaries is important, as it potentially enables NGOs to learn how to be more impactful. Therefore, this paper introduces rich, contextually embedded perspectives on how NGO managers can exploit such technologies to enhance accountability and impact.


Keywords: Technology, NGO, accountability, blockchain, international aid, triple-entry accounting

Suggested Citation:

Kuruppu, Sanjaya and Dissanayake, Dinithi and de Villiers, Charl, How Can NGO Accountability Practices be Improved with Technologies Such as Blockchain and Triple-entry Accounting? (January 30, 2022). Kuruppu, S., Dissanayake, D. & De Villiers, C. 2022. How can NGO accountability practices be improved with technologies such as blockchain and triple-entry accounting?, Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, forthcoming. DOI: 10.1108/AAAJ-10-2020-4972, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4048416
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
87 References
G Agyemang , M Awumbila , J Unerman , B O'dwyer
NGO Accountability and Aid Delivery. Retrieved from Association of Chartered Certified Accountants website Posted: 2009
G Agyemang , B O'dwyer , J Unerman
NGO accountability: retrospective and prospective academic contributions
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal Posted: 2019
, p. 2353 - 2366
G Agyemang , B O'dwyer , J Unerman , M Awumbila
Seeking "conversations for accountability
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 982 - 1007 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
260
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,151
RANK
268,675
4 Citations
87 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies