Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Revisiting the Theory of Revenue Diversification: Insights from an Empirical Analysis of Municipal Budgetary Solvency

Public Budgeting and Finance (2022).

35 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2022 Last revised: 9 May 2022

Benedict S. Jimenez

Georgia State University - Andrew Young School of Policy Studies

Whitney Afonso

University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill - School of Government; affiliation not provided to SSRN

Date Written: January 15, 2022

Abstract

How does revenue diversification shape the budgetary solvency of city governments? Previous studies informed by the public choice/fiscal illusion perspective suggest that diversification leads to unsustainable government expansion and budgetary imbalance. In contrast, the organizational adaptation/modern portfolio theory suggests that diversification enables government to prepare for external fiscal shocks. We use different measures of revenue diversification and rely on audited financial information to develop general fund-based and government-wide budgetary solvency measures for more than 500 midsized and large cities in the U.S. from 2006 to 2012. Addressing omitted variable bias, the results of the econometric analyses indicate that the type of diversification matters. Specifically, diversifying to non-tax sources improves budgetary solvency as indicated by higher government-wide operating ratio and reserves, whereas diversifying within the tax structure produces the opposite effects. The contradictory results point to the need to rethink current theories of diversification, which do not recognize the different ways that revenue structures can be broadened, and how these produce distinct effects on fiscal performance. We lay out the critical first step in clarifying and further developing a more nuanced theory by proposing three causal mechanisms outlining the pathways through which the types of diversification can influence budget outcomes.

Keywords: Revenue Diversification, Organizational Adaptation, Fiscal Illusion, Budgetary Solvency

JEL Classification: H2, H7

Suggested Citation:

Jimenez, Benedict Salazar and Afonso, Whitney, Revisiting the Theory of Revenue Diversification: Insights from an Empirical Analysis of Municipal Budgetary Solvency (January 15, 2022). Public Budgeting and Finance (2022)., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
59 References
Whitney Afonso
Diversification Toward Stability? The Effect of Local Sales Taxes on Own Source Revenue
Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial Management , volume 25 , issue 4 , p. 649 - 674 Posted: 2013
Whitney Afonso
Coping with the Great Recession: Theory and Practice for County Governments
International Journal of Public Administration , volume 36 , issue 11 , p. 768 - 779 Posted: 2013
Whitney Afonso
Fiscal Illusion in State and Local Finances: A Hindrance to Transparency
State and Local Government Review , volume 46 , issue 3 , p. 219 - 228 Posted: 2014
Whitney B Afonso
Revenue Portfolio and Expenditures: An Examination of the Volatility of Tax Revenue and Expenditure Patterns During the Great Recession
International Journal of Public Administration , volume 40 , issue 10 , p. 896 - 905 Posted: 2017
Load more
2 Citations
Benedict Salazar Jimenez
Applying the Loss-Conflict Model of Fiscal Retrenchment: Understanding City Expenditure and Revenue Responses to a Budget Crisis
Public Performance and Management Review (2021). · 39 Pages · Posted: 19 Apr 2022 · Downloads: 48
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Wesley Janson , Justin Marlowe
Diversification and Stability in Illinois Local Government Revenues
17 Pages · Posted: 25 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 85
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
170
ABSTRACT VIEWS
848
RANK
403,165
2 Citations
59 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies