Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing with Purpose: Evidence from Private Foundations

118 Pages Posted: 21 Mar 2022 Last revised: 15 Oct 2025

Matteo Binfarè

University of Missouri at Columbia - Department of Finance

Kyle Zimmerschied

University of Arkansas, Fayetteville - Department of Finance

Date Written: March 15, 2022

Abstract

We study the asset allocation and investment performance of U.S. private foundations that support the charitable sector. Large foundations generated positive risk-adjusted returns before 2008, driven by early access to private equity and venture capital funds, but have underperformed since. The median foundation underperforms by more than 100 basis points. Foundations with concentrated stock holdings achieve higher returns but assume more risk. Due to the constraints imposed by the 5% minimum spending rule and accommodating monetary policy, foundations increase risk-taking and reach for yield. Over time, a conservative asset allocation decreases real wealth, reducing charitable giving.

Keywords: Asset Allocation, Investment Performance, Spending, Private Foundations, Institutional Investors

JEL Classification: G23, J24, J31, J33, J44

Suggested Citation:

Binfarè, Matteo and Zimmerschied, Kyle, Investing with Purpose: Evidence from Private Foundations (March 15, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4057652 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4057652
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
53 References
Rustam Abuzov , Will Gornall , Ilya A Strebulaev
The value of privacy and the choice of limited partners by venture capitalists
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 169 Posted: 2025
Arthur C Allen , Brian P Mcallister
How private foundation sophistication affects capital campaign grant decisions
Journal of Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting , volume 8 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 20 Posted: 2019
Robert Alvarez
Real property, probate, and trust journal
Tech. rep. Section of Real Property Posted: 1966
Aleksandar Andonov , Rob Bauer , Martijn Cremers
Can large pension funds beat the market? Asset allocation, market timing, security selection and the limits of liquidity
SSRN Electronic Journal Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
503
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,765
RANK
128,733
53 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds & Investment Industry eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies