Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Infrastructure Finance for the Public Good: Federalism, Asset Recycling & Untangling the New York MTA's $50 Billion Debt Load

63 Pages Posted: 30 Mar 2022 Last revised: 30 Jan 2023

Lev E. Breydo

William & Mary Law School; College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business; University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School - Student/Alumni/Adjunct

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Systematic infrastructure underinvestment – a $2.6 trillion ‘gap’ – and accelerating climate change have become facts of life in the United States. Though typically attributed to politics, this Article posits the underlying cause as a market disequilibrium rooted in infrastructure’s unique economic dimensions, exacerbated by dual-federalism. The recently-passed Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, though well-intentioned, is insufficient to overcome these long-standing challenges.

Based on a broad, global study of effective approaches to infrastructure finance, as well as a multi-disciplinary analysis of the economics, engineering and finance literature, this Article proposes addressing the U.S. infrastructure disequilibrium through asset recycling. Asset recycling is an innovative strategy, pioneered in Australia, premised on a two-phase process: (i) monetizing existing, government-owned infrastructure; and (ii) reinvesting the proceeds in new asset development. The new assets can then be ‘recycled’ again, creating a virtuous cycle on a debt-neutral basis for the government.

The Article illustrates this approach through a detailed, empirical case study of the New York MTA, the nation’s largest transit agency. The MTA has over $50 billion of debt, COVID-19-related losses exceeding $20 billion and bond covenants, as well as state law, explicitly prohibiting bankruptcy. The analysis finds that monetizing solely the MTA’s bridge and tunnel assets (but not the subway) through a long-term concession could, conservatively, generate $33 to $53 billion – sufficient to repay the majority, if not entirety, of the MTA’s obligations, giving it the wherewithal to build the sustainable infrastructure that New York deserves.

Beyond the mechanics and empirics, the underlying principles – leveraging private capital, coupled with robust oversight – have far broader implications, as asset recycling is estimated to represent a $1.1 trillion opportunity. The Article concludes with a discussion of normative and policy considerations, as well as areas for future research, including multi-stakeholder governance frameworks for imperfect public goods, ESG-based contractual mechanisms and the interplay between infrastructure policy and climate change, with an emphasis on broad-based social and allocative equity.

Keywords: infrastructure, finance, federalism, legislation, capital markets, transportation, climate change, covid-19, bankruptcy, municipal, municipal debt, public-private partnership, comparative, international, MTA, public transportation

Suggested Citation:

Breydo, Lev, Infrastructure Finance for the Public Good: Federalism, Asset Recycling & Untangling the New York MTA's $50 Billion Debt Load (February 28, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4060419 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4060419
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
114 References
I Infrastructure Finance
B U S Approach
C
Perspective: Public-Private 'Hybrid
Public-Private Partnerships , volume 2
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
185
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,001
RANK
373,551
114 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow

U.S. Constitutional Law: Rights & Liberties eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies