Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Financial Information and Voluntary Disclosures on Contributions to Not-for-Profit Organizations: A Field-Based Experiment

29 Pages Posted: 20 May 2003

Linda M. Parsons

University of Alabama - Culverhouse School of Accountancy

Abstract

The relationship between the management of and donors to a not-for-profit firm is an example of a situation with information asymmetry. This study examines whether it is possible for nonprofit managers to increase donations received if they provide signals to convey the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations.

A field-based experiment uses a real 501(c)3 organization to investigate whether accounting information reduces perceived uncertainty about nonprofit operations. Potential donors were sent, via a direct mail campaign, fundraising appeals containing varying amounts of financial and nonfinancial information in order to determine whether individual donors 1) are more likely to contribute and 2) donate greater amounts when accounting information is provided.

A logistic regression provides evidence that some donors use financial accounting information when making a donation decision. Donors who had previously contributed to the organizations are more likely to give when financial efficiency measures are provided to them directly.

Keywords: voluntary disclosures, service efforts and accomplishments, not-for-profit, field experiment

JEL Classification: M41, M45, M48

Suggested Citation:

Parsons, Linda M., The Impact of Financial Information and Voluntary Disclosures on Contributions to Not-for-Profit Organizations: A Field-Based Experiment. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=406760 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.406760
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
G A Akerlof
The market for 'lemons': Quality uncertainty and the market mechanism
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 84 , issue 3 , p. 488 - 500 Posted: 1970-08
Crossref
K W Arenson
Charitable giving surged again in '99, by an estimated 9%
New York Times (M ay Posted: 2000
R Ball , P Brown
An empirical evaluation of accounting numbers
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 6 , p. 159 - 178 Posted: 1968
Crossref
M E Barnes
How should I use direct mail? on
Internet Nonprofit Center Posted: 1995-07
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
1,103
ABSTRACT VIEWS
8,376
RANK
45,536
19 Citations
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Recommended Papers

Expense Misreporting in Nonprofit Organizations

By Ranjani Krishnan, Michelle Yetman, ...

The Causes and Consequences of Internal Control Problems in Nonprofit Organizations

By Christine Petrovits, Catherine Shakespeare, ...

Web Disclosure and the Market for Charitable Contributions

By Gregory D. Saxton, Daniel Neely, ...

 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies