Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Devising The Policy of Funds Allocation In The Decision-Making Process Under The Budget and Tax Management

Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1 (13 (115)), 69–79, 2022, doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/1729-4061.2022.253072

11 Pages Posted: 1 May 2022

Nataliia Kuzmynchuk

V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University

Nataliia Mardus

National Technical University "Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute"

Oleksandr Davydov

V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University

Viktoriia Yevtushenko

V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University

Olena Melen

National Technical University "Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute"

Alla Kharchenko

National Technical University "Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute"

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

This paper reports a seminal study whose relevance and significance are related to strengthening the importance of improving the distribution policy by introducing a model for optimizing the allocation of budget funds in the decision-making process. It has been determined that the potential of life support of the population in a region (PLSP in a region) acts as a tool for examining the resources in the region in terms of their capability to meet the needs of the population of the region in the current period and in the future. Based on the anthropocentric approach, it was determined that the main strategic resource is human potential that possesses a set of characteristics (components), which reflect its physical potential, the potential abilities and knowledge, as well as property potential. The implementation of the PLSP concept in the region has caused an urgent desire to study modern problems related to the budget and tax management of regional development, specifically, the management of budget expenditures at the stage of their allocation using modern means for supporting these processes. The expediency of using models of mathematical programming to determine the effective structure of the budget, taking into consideration the rate of inflation and the use of the methodology for calculating real wages, has been established. The following values for most priority areas of budget financing were calculated: the level of development of social infrastructure (11 %), the level of vocational training (29 %), the level of remuneration and entrepreneurial income (21 %), and the level of social payments to the population (14 %). It has been found that when a new allocation of budget funds is implemented, the value of the achieved level of PLSP development in a region could increase by 9 % compared to 2021.

The proposed approach is a permanently important prerequisite for the formation of priority areas of budget financing for the components of PLSP in a region in the process of producing and implementing universal and specific solutions in the field of budget and tax management.

Keywords: Allocation policy, optimal distribution, potential of life support of the population in a region, budget and tax management

Suggested Citation:

Kuzmynchuk, Nataliia and Mardus, Nataliia and Davydov, Oleksandr and Yevtushenko, Viktoriia and Melen, Olena and Kharchenko, Alla, Devising The Policy of Funds Allocation In The Decision-Making Process Under The Budget and Tax Management (February 28, 2022). Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1 (13 (115)), 69–79, 2022, doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/1729-4061.2022.253072, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072079
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
United Nations Development Programme
Human Development Reports
J Bluedorn , W Lian , N Novta , Y Timmer
Widening Gaps: Regional Inequality within Advanced Economies Posted: 2019
O V Shevchenko
Dysproportsiyi sotsialno-ekonomichnoho rozvytku rehioniv Ukrainy: sutnist, otsinka, stratehichne rehuliuvannia , volume 300 Posted: 2020
O V Shevchenko , N V Bakhur , Ye V Maliarevskyi , A L Deshko
Optymizatsiya vydatkiv biudzhetu na sotsialnoekonomichnyi rozvytok okremykh terytoriy. Natsionalnyi instytut stratehichnykh doslidzhen Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
57
ABSTRACT VIEWS
296
RANK
864,457
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Choice: Analysis of Collective Decision-Making eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies