Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Elaboration of recommendations on the development of the state internal audit system when applying the digital technologies

Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1 (13 (115)), 39–48. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/1729-4061.2022.252424

10 Pages Posted: 13 Apr 2022

Volodymyr Korol

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv

Olga Dmytryk

Yaroslav Mudryi National Law University

Oleksandr Karpenko

State Higher Educational Institution «Kyiv National Economic University named after Vadym Hetman»

Valeriia O. Riadinska

State Research Institute of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine

Oleksandr Basiuk

V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University

Dmytro Kobylnik

Yaroslav Mudryi National Law University

Volodymyr Moroz

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv

Olha Safronova

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv

Eugene Alisov

Yaroslav Mudryi National Law University

Tetyana Mishchenko

State Tax University

Date Written: February 28, 2022

Abstract

Recommendations for the development of a state internal audit system in conditions of using digital technologies have been elaborated. It was established that the procedures of conducting state internal audits change under influence of digitization. Conformity of the stages of audit digitization and the applied digital technologies was established. Foreign experience in the digitization of the state internal audit was analyzed. It was also established that the active application of artificial intelligence technologies may be one of the probable scenarios of the development of the state internal audit system in foreign countries in the near future. Types of digital technologies were systematized depending on the field of state internal audit. It was found that the maximum effect from the use of digital technologies in the field of audit will take place in the case of their synergistic combination. Coordinated interaction between constituent elements of the state internal audit has been established. This has made it possible to present the process of development of the state internal audit system in conditions of digitization and determine its main objective: ensure greater transparency and efficiency of accounting for tangible assets by means of new digital technologies. Taking into account the above, a mechanism of development of the system of state internal audit in conditions of use of digital technologies was offered. It is based on corresponding directions and measures. It was established that to assess the efficiency of development of the state internal audit system in conditions of application of digital technologies, it is advisable to use the indicators reflecting overall results of measures taken in state financial control. The application of the proposed mechanism will make it possible to establish the effect of digital technologies on the development of the state internal audit.



Keywords: state internal audit, digital technologies, digitization, financial audit, audit development

Suggested Citation:

Korol, Volodymyr and Dmytryk, Olga and Karpenko, Oleksandr and Riadinska, Valeriia O. and Basiuk, Oleksandr and Kobylnik, Dmytro and Moroz, Volodymyr and Safronova, Olha and Alisov, Eugene and Mishchenko, Tetyana, Elaboration of recommendations on the development of the state internal audit system when applying the digital technologies (February 28, 2022). Eastern-European Journal of Enterprise Technologies, 1 (13 (115)), 39–48. doi: https://doi.org/10.15587/1729-4061.2022.252424, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4072009
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
40 References
Tsyfrovizatsiya -tse postupove peretvorennia usikh derzhavnykh posluh na zruchni onlain-servisy Posted: 2021
Derzhavna audytorska sluzhba Ukrainy
Tsyfrova transformatsiya derzhavnoho finansovoho kontroliu (e-Audytor Posted: 2021
D Petrakaki
Re-locating accountability through technology: From bureaucratic to electronic ways of governing public sector work
International Journal of Public Sector Management , volume 31 , issue 1 , p. 31 - 45 Posted: 2018
L Engelbrecht , Y Yasseen , I Omarjee
The role of the internal audit function in integrated reporting: a developing economy perspective
Meditari Accountancy Research , volume 26 , issue 4 , p. 657 - 674 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
539
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,408
RANK
118,293
40 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies