Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessment of the Factors Affecting the Effectiveness of Internal Audit Functions in Rwandan Public Institutions: A Case Study of RSSB (Rwanda Social Security Board).

26 Pages Posted: 1 Jul 2022 Last revised: 12 Dec 2022

Dr. Jean Paul Mpakaniye

INES-RUHENGERI

Kiberinka Delphine

INES RUHENGERI

Date Written: April 2, 2022

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to assess the factors affecting the effectiveness of internal audit functions in Rwandan public organizations; a case study of RSSB. The Specific objectives which guided the study were: To determine the level of internal audit effectiveness in RSSB, to assess the determinants of internal audit effectiveness in RSSB, and to examine the challenges encountered by the internal audit function in RSSB. The study population was comprised of 305 employees of RSSB from which by using a purposive sampling technique and the formula of Alain Bouchard a sample of 76 respondents have been selected. Pearson moment Correlation coefficient was used to analyze the relationship between the variables of the study. The study found that the factors affecting internal audit effectiveness are :The management support; management's perception of IA's value and organizational independence as confirmed by 100% respondents. The adequate and competent internal audit staff and approved internal audit charter are confirmed by 93.4% and 90.7% respectively. Moreover, the study by using the Pearson Correlation coefficient found that there is a positive relationship between internal audit function and effectiveness of RSSB as r=0.85. The study recommends that RSSB should pay utmost attention to the role of internal auditing in better understanding of financial dimensions of development as one of the important tools of improving performances.

Keywords: internal auditing function, internal auditing function

JEL Classification: M48

Suggested Citation:

Mpakaniye, Dr. Jean Paul and Delphine, Kiberinka, Assessment of the Factors Affecting the Effectiveness of Internal Audit Functions in Rwandan Public Institutions: A Case Study of RSSB (Rwanda Social Security Board). (April 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4073712 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4073712
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
32 References
A B Andrew
Research design, and sample size Posted: 2008
M A S Badara , S Z Saidin
The journey so far on internal audit effectiveness: A calling for expansion
International Journal of Academic Research in Accounting , volume 3 , issue 3 , p. 340 - 351 Posted: 2013
G Beck , R A Moroney , E Wondim
Financial and legal constraints to firm growth: does firm size matter
Journal of Finance , volume 60 , issue 21 , p. 137 - 177 Posted: 2005
A Cohen , G Sayag
The effectiveness of internal auditing: An empirical examination of its determinants in Israeli organization
Australian Accounting Journal , volume 20 , issue 3 , p. 296 - 307 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
197
ABSTRACT VIEWS
874
RANK
352,349
32 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Organizations & Markets: Formal & Informal Structures eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies