Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Factors Affecting Electronic Auditing on Financial Health in Government Organizations Affiliated with the Iranian Government

18 Pages Posted: 3 May 2022

Hafez Azadbakht

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Mahmoud Hemmatfa

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Farid Sefati

Islamic Azad University (IAU)

Date Written: April 3, 2022

Abstract

Electronic accounting, which includes documentation collection, tracking, archiving, summarizing transactions of events that are related to a business institution, also includes summarizing information on shares of a business institution group in an electronic environment, is an example of the inevitable emergence of technology. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of the factors that affect the financial health of E-Audit Control on Government Organizations and related to the Iranian government. The statistical population of this study was made up of managers and employees of government-affiliated organizations in Lorestan province of Kohdasht. Based on this statistics, the total number of aid workers in Lorestan province is 800 support. In this study, Kohdasht district is considered as a district with 156 villages and the statistical population of the study is a census because the population is limited. In this research data were a questionnaire. The results have been analyzed using structural equation modeling and smart.PLS software. The results showed that electronic audit has a positive effect on the factors related to auditing, electronic audit infrastructure, electronic audit, environmental factors, financial deviations, organizational factors, positive effect on electronic audit, rules, and regulations.

Keywords: Audit, information technology, electronic audit, financial health, government organization

Suggested Citation:

Azadbakht, Hafez and Hemmatfa, Mahmoud and Sefati, Farid, The Effect of Factors Affecting Electronic Auditing on Financial Health in Government Organizations Affiliated with the Iranian Government (April 3, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4074012 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4074012
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
Rahimi Dastjerdi , Mohsen
Electronic audit and its role in the term consumption pattern. Regional Conference The Role of Management Accounting and Auditing in Consumption Pattern Improvement Posted: 2012
Samaneh Salimi
Auditing financial statements and its role in detecting, preventing fraud and financial corruption. The first national electronic conference on new achievements in management and accounting sciences Posted: 2014
Shahin Shirini
The Necessity of Auditing Fraud in Electronic Accounting Operations, National Conference on New Approaches in Management, Economics and Accounting Posted: 2018
Ghasemi Movahed , Hamidreza Mojtaba , Torbati Bazazzadeh
Indicators of the possibility of fraud in financial statements from the perspective of independent auditors working in auditing firms in Mashhad, 3rd International Conference on Dynamic Management, Accounting and Auditing Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
195
ABSTRACT VIEWS
654
RANK
355,741
1 Citations
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies