Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are disasters extraordinary?  Reporting nonrecurring items in the government setting

47 Pages Posted: 5 May 2022 Last revised: 4 Aug 2025

Xiangpei Chen

Loyola University of Chicago

Angela K. Gore

George Washington University

James Potepa

American University - Accounting

Date Written: August 04, 2025

Abstract

We comprehensively explore reporting nonrecurring gains and losses – that is, extraordinary and special items – in the governmental setting. Despite their economic import and GASB requirements, no prior study investigates them. We begin by descriptively documenting the nature, type, and frequency of reporting. Events commonly triggering municipal nonrecurring items include legal settlements, asset sales, and natural disasters. The evidence reveals a surprisingly low percentage of municipalities report nonrecurring items, including a subset of our sample with FEMA disasters. Findings suggest municipal finance directors who are CPAs are significantly more likely to report nonrecurring items, and, while somewhat mixed, less likely when municipalities are led by an unelected bureaucrat (council-manager political governance). Moreover, we find that nonrecurring items are systematically associated with surpluses and deficits in a manner that suggests strategic reporting. Specifically, the evidence is consistent with officials reporting income-increasing nonrecurring items to reduce or avoid reporting deficits, and income-decreasing nonrecurring items to reduce surpluses. Strategic reporting is generally magnified when state laws allow voters to directly place initiatives on the ballot, while it is reduced when state laws mandate GAAP accounting or external audits. Overall, we conclude that accounting expertise and political governance structures are significant determinants of reporting nonrecurring items, and that some politicians and bureaucrats strategically report them.

Keywords: Governmental Accounting, Nonrecurring Items, Special Items, Extraordinary Items, Initiative Provisions, Balanced Budgets, CFO accounting expertise, GAAP laws

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Xiangpei and Gore, Angela K. and Potepa, James,
Are disasters extraordinary?  Reporting nonrecurring items in the government setting
(August 04, 2025). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4077172 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4077172
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
I Abramova , J Gillette , J Weber
Evidence on the importance of the financial reporting function in municipal governments Posted: 2021
Accounting Principles Board , volume 34 Posted: 1973
M Arellano , J Hahn
Understanding bias in nonlinear panel models: Some recent developments , volume 43 Posted: 2007
C Armstrong , J Kepler , D Samuels , D Taylor
Causality redux: The evolution of empirical methods in accounting research and the growth of quasi-experiments
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 74 , issue 2-3 , p. 1015 - 1021 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
628
RANK
841,369
1 Citations
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies