Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Expenditures in Local Taxes - an Effective Instrument of Local Tax Policy? The Example of Poland

CE 2021 vl. 15 issue 4 p. 393-414

22 Pages Posted: 27 Apr 2022

Paweł Felis

Warsaw School of Economics (SGH)

Grzegorz Gołębiowski

University of Finance and Management

Date Written: December 24, 2021

Abstract

This study examines the size and diversity of tax expenditures (TEs) by gminas (municipalities) in Poland between 2007 and 2019. Consequences of gminas' taxing power and the reduction of revenues resulting from statutory tax preferences were taken into account. To analyze the data, we used: scatter graphs (showing the relationship between two selected variables) and plot graphs (showing the course of the values of the studied variables over time, to show the dynamics of the phenomena). The scatter graphs showed, sometimes strong, linear correlative relationships. No clear curvilinear relationships were found, therefore we applied Pearson correlation. Gminas used TEs to a small but also highly variable extent. The factors determining their use involved: the type and potential of the gmina; the type of local tax. The research hypothesis was partially positively verified. The increase in the incremental % of TEs' share in tax revenue has a positive impact on the incremental trend of revenue growth in the following year. The use of TEs in real estate and vehicle taxes may have strengthened the revenue potential of some gminas in the consecutive years.

Keywords: Tax expenditures, local authority tax policy, local taxes

JEL Classification: E62, H71, H72, R51

Suggested Citation:

Felis, Paweł and Gołębiowski, Grzegorz, Tax Expenditures in Local Taxes - an Effective Instrument of Local Tax Policy? The Example of Poland (December 24, 2021). CE 2021 vl. 15 issue 4 p. 393-414, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4080833
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
357
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies