Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trouble on the Bottom Line: Canada's Governments Must Produce More Reliable Budgets

C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 611, 2021

32 Pages Posted: 19 May 2022

William B. P. Robson

C.D. Howe Institute

Miles Wu

C.D. Howe Institute

Date Written: November 10, 2021

Abstract

In theory, management of public funds by Canada’s federal, provincial and territorial governments reflects the preferences Canadians express through their elected representatives. In practice, the revenues and expenses that Canada’s senior governments report after year-end, and the resulting changes in governments’ net worth, are different enough from budget projections to raise questions about accountability for public funds in Canada. These governments routinely miss their targets by meaningful amounts, and the gaps between budgets and results are not random. One consistent pattern is governments’ reporting both expenses and revenues higher than projected in their budgets. Over the 20 fiscal years since 2000/01, Canada’s senior governments overshot their expense targets by a cumulative $119 billion. That means they went into the COVID-19 crisis spending $3,100 more per Canadian than they would have if they had fulfilled their past budget commitments. Even more startling is the cumulative revenue overshoot since 2000/01: $143 billion. Canada’s senior governments went into the crisis raising $3,800 per Canadian more than they would have if they had hit their previous revenue targets. This pattern of revenue overshoots larger than spending overshoots is interesting because it runs against conventional wisdom about the over-optimism of budget forecasts. But the disconnect between projections and results is concerning, and the details of the misses raise important questions about fiscal policy’s behaviour over the economic cycle. If the uncontroversial objectives of stabilizing tax rates, programs and the economy shaped governments’ responses to economic cycles, slumps would cause overshoots of expenses coincident with undershoots of revenue, and booms would cause undershoots of expenses coincident with overshoots of revenue. But that pattern is the exception among Canada’s senior governments. Overshoots on either side of their ledgers tend to coincide, suggesting that governments under-projected revenue and then spent most of the resulting in-year “surprise” or otherwise managed the numbers to achieve a predetermined bottom line. We also note a recent tendency for governments to report negative adjustments “below the line” in their financial reports, signifying deteriorations in their capacity to deliver services not anticipated in budgets. While these adjustments are not, in principle, inconsistent with public sector accounting standards, they are an obstacle to accountability. Ottawa, the provinces and territories would be better placed to handle current fiscal pressures if their recent results had been closer to their budget projections. Appropriate use of devices such as contingency reserves, including proper scrutiny of their use by legislators, can improve accountability to legislatures and voters. Although the fiscal response to the COVID-19 pandemic is currently driving an unprecedented wedge between spending commitments and results, we note some encouraging developments over the 20 fiscal years examined in this report. Both the tendency to miss budget targets and the troubling annual patterns of misses were less pronounced over the past seven fiscal years. The size of below-the-line adjustments also tended to shrink. With COVID-19 having prompted increases in expenses that will persist for years and increases in debt that will persist for decades, two threats loom. One is a greater temptation to manage the bottom line. The other is increased upward pressure on taxes and pressure to cut services. Legislators and voters should demand more reliable budget targets and better adherence to those targets in the future.

Keywords: Fiscal and tax policy, provincial comparisons, provincial taxation and budgets, transparency of public finances

JEL Classification: H30

Suggested Citation:

Robson, William B. P. and Wu, Miles, Trouble on the Bottom Line: Canada's Governments Must Produce More Reliable Budgets (November 10, 2021). C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 611, 2021, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4096116 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4096116
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
Budget Documents Jurisdiction Budget Document Used for Rating Accessible at Federal 2019 Budget Plan
Prince Edward , Island
Budget Estimates of Revenue and Expenditures Posted: 2019
New Brunswick 2019-2020 Main Estimates Posted: 2019
Quebec Quebec Budget Plan 2019-2020 Posted: 2019
Load more
3 Citations
William B. P. Robson , Nicholas Dahir
Fiscal COVID: The Pandemic’s Impact on Government Finances and Accountability in Canada
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 643 · 39 Pages · Posted: 15 Jul 2023 · Downloads: 37
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William B. P. Robson , Nicholas Dahir
The ABCs of Fiscal Accountability: The Report Card for Canada’s Senior Governments, 2023
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 646 · 32 Pages · Posted: 15 Nov 2023 · Downloads: 32
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
William B. P. Robson , Nicholas Dahir
<span>Fiscal Accountability by the Letters: The Report Card for Canada’s Senior Governments, 2024</span>
C.D. Howe Institute Commentary 669 · 35 Pages · Posted: 20 Nov 2024 · Downloads: 20
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
48
ABSTRACT VIEWS
439
3 Citations
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies