Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effect of Corporate Governance on the Individual Work Performance of Employees: the Case of Private Higher Education

17 Pages Posted: 20 May 2022 Last revised: 9 Feb 2025

Damianus Abun

Divine Word College of Laoag

Theogenia Magallanes

Saint Benedict College of Northern Luzon

Mary Joy Encarnacion

Divine Word College of Vigan

Frelyn B. Ranay

Independent

Date Written: April 30, 2022

Abstract

The study aims to examine the effect of corporate governance on the individual work performance of employees of private higher education. To deepen the understanding of the concept of corporate governance and work performance, literature was reviewed. The study used a descriptive assessment and correlational research design and the population of the study was all employees of the Divine Word College of Laoag, Ilocos Norte. Questionnaires were used to gather the data. The study found that the corporate governance of the institution is considered high and the work performance is moderate. However, the Pearson r product moment analysis found that there is a significant correlation between corporate governance and the individual work performance of employees.

Keywords: Corporate governance, individual work performance, task performance, contextual performance, counterproductive behaviour

Suggested Citation:

Abun, Damianus and Magallanes, Theogenia and Encarnacion, Mary Joy and Ranay, Frelyn B., The Effect of Corporate Governance on the Individual Work Performance of Employees: the Case of Private Higher Education (April 30, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4097801
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
63 References
D Abun , M T Nicolas , E P Apollo , T Magallanes , M J Encarnacion
Employees' self-efficacy and work performance of employees as mediated by the work environment
International Journal of Research in Business and Social Science , volume 10 , issue 7 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2021
M M Ariola , J Ashraf
The accounting fraud at WorldCom the causes, the characteristics, the consequences, and the lessons learned
HIM Posted: 1107
Administration and Governance of Higher Education in Asia: Patterns and Implications Posted: 2012
M M Blair
Corporate Governance
International Encyclopedia of the Social & Behavioral Sciences Posted: 2001
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
68
ABSTRACT VIEWS
660
RANK
785,362
63 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies