Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Limits of Limitless Debt

43 Pages Posted: 25 May 2022 Last revised: 26 Oct 2023

Kent Osband

Independent

Salvatore Capasso

University of Naples "Parthenope"

Valerio Filoso

University of Naples "Federico II"; Institute for Studies on the Mediterranean (ISMed)

Date Written: October 9, 2023

Abstract

How worrisome are mounting sovereign debt-to-GDP ratios? Many economists profess little concern. Low real interest rates reduce the relative burden of past debt and seem to testify to lender optimism. Furthermore, the debt is mostly in fiat currency, which eases rollover. Yet his- torical evidence (Reinhart and Rogoff, 2009) shows that high sovereign debt is prone to default and that credit spreads are often trailing indicators.

This paper offers a simple way to model the trade-offs. On the one hand, it acknowledges that large debt overhangs tend to raise default risks. On the other hand, it allows sovereigns to roll over debt regardless of long-term fiscal solvency. The combination allows credit spreads to stay very low for decades yet eventually spiral out of control and trigger a default.

Hence, neither the reassurance of low spreads nor the alarm from growing overhang should automatically prevail. To illustrate the trade-offs, we review the ebb and flow of US sovereign debt burdens since World War II. Between record peacetime debt-to-GDP ratios and weakened fiscal discipline, an exemplary double-or-triple-A credit rating for the US no longer seems justi- fied. Moreover, the current outlook is poor, with debt growing much faster than GDP and scant prospects of contraction.

Keywords: bond market, bond interest rate, credit spreads, sovereign debt, sovereign debt default, debt management, surprise, financial bubbles

JEL Classification: G010, G120, H630

Suggested Citation:

Osband, Kent and Capasso, Salvatore and Filoso, Valerio, The Limits of Limitless Debt (October 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4109320 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4109320
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
22 References
S A Abbas , A Pienkowski , K Rogoff
Sovereign debt: A guide for economists and practitioners Posted: 2019
M M Badia , P Medas , P Gupta , Y Xiang
Debt is not free
Journal of International Money and Finance , volume 127 , p. 1 - 23 Posted: 2022
R J Barro
Are Government Bonds Net Wealth
Journal of Political Economy , volume 82 , issue 6 , p. 1095 - 1117 Posted: 1974
A Bhandari , D Evans , M Golosov , T J Sargent
Public Debt in Economies With Heterogeneous Agents
Journal of Monetary Economics , volume 91 , p. 39 - 51 Posted: 2017-11
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
114
ABSTRACT VIEWS
769
RANK
564,093
22 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies