Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Management of Financial Risks Related To The State's Activities In The Capital Market

4 Pages Posted: 15 Jun 2022

Professor Kelly Kingsly

Regional Advisory Commision on Financial Markets

Date Written: June 2, 2022

Abstract

Cash management is the activity of a State ensuring the timely satisfaction of creditors and other interested parties- suppliers of goods and services, lenders, staff, and owners - through the use of debt when necessary, at the lowest possible cost for a level of known and accepted risks.

To carry out public policies and guarantee the financial continuity of the State, this debt may be contracted through bond issues on the capital market.

However, the optimal mobilization of resources on the market requires considering the concept of risk, which may take several forms and whose occurrence may jeopardize the financial viability of the State. This implies that before deciding on risk, a thorough study and analysis must first be made to identify its probability and the impact it could have.


Keywords: Financial markets, capital markets, risk management, resource mobilisation

Suggested Citation:

Kingsly, Professor Kelly Mua, Management of Financial Risks Related To The State's Activities In The Capital Market (June 2, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126390 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
47
ABSTRACT VIEWS
335
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets Economics: Firm Behavior & Microeconomic Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies