Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Auditing Public Debt using Risk Management

INFORMS Journal of Applied Analytics (in print)

35 Pages Posted: 7 Jun 2022 Last revised: 11 Jan 2023

Andrea Consiglio

University of Palermo - d/SEAS

Akis Kikas

Government of the Republic of Cyprus

Odysseas Michaelides

Audit Office of the Republic of Cyprus

Stavros A. Zenios

Durham University Business School; University of Cyprus; Cyprus Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts; Bruegel

Date Written: October 1, 2022

Abstract

The Audit Oﬃce of the Republic of Cyprus conducts the ﬁrst ever audit of the country’s public debt, seeking answers to two key questions: (i) Is government debt sustainable, and (ii) is debt ﬁnancing eﬃcient and eﬀective in securing the lowest cost with acceptable risks? The ﬁndings are discussed by the Parliament and could have signiﬁcant ramiﬁcations for public ﬁnance. However, public debt management is a complex issue, with the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions suggesting that suﬃcient technical knowledge is essential in undertaking an audit, including an understanding of the uncertain macroeconomy, ﬁnancing conditions, and government ﬁscal stance. We use a risk management model based on scenario trees in conducting the audit. The model provides optimal debt ﬁnancing strategies to benchmark the performance of the country’s public debt management oﬃce and answer the audit questions. We also incorporate an integrated assessment model to examine the risks from climate change. The Auditor General presented the ﬁndings to the Parliamentary Audit Committee in the presence of the Minister of Finance, and our recommendations are expected to have a signiﬁcant impact on the debt operations of the country.

Keywords: Debt sustainability analysis; sovereign debt; performance audit; risk management; debt financing; climate risk

JEL Classification: C44, C61, E43, H63, H68, M42

Suggested Citation:

Consiglio, Andrea and Kikas, Akis and Michaelides, Odysseas and Zenios, Stavros A., Auditing Public Debt using Risk Management (October 1, 2022). INFORMS Journal of Applied Analytics (in print), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4126959 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4126959
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
30 References
K Alberola , G Chen , A Consiglio , S Zenios
Debt sustainability and monetary policy: The case of ecb asset purchases
Bank for International Settlements Posted: 1034-07
A Alogoskoufis , N Dunz , T Emambakhsh , T Hennig , M Kaijser , C Kouratzoglou , M Muñoz , L Parisi , C Salleo
ECB economy-wide climate stress test
Occasional Paper Serie , volume 281 Posted: 2021
P Artzner , F Delbaen , J M Eber , D Heath
Coherent measures of risk
Mathematical Finance , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 203 - 228 Posted: 1999
A Benton , H Smith
The impact of parties and elections on municipal debt policy in Mexico
Governance: An International Journal of Policy, Administration, and Institutions , volume 30 , p. 621 - 639 Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
233
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,091
RANK
299,785
2 Citations
30 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies