Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Structural Transformation of Government-Wide Accounting and Modernisation of GPFRs Financial Reporting Architecture

84 Pages Posted: 16 Jun 2022

Christopher Alozie

University of Nigeria

Date Written: June 7, 2022

Abstract

[enter APurpose: This research project carried out in-depth investigative reviews and case analyses on government-wide accounting and financial reporting in about 13 sovereign entities alongside the extent compliance with extant international public sector accounting standards (IPSASs). This was sequel to the significant amendments and modification being introduced in the preparation and presentation of the general purpose financial statements in the global practice, notably from the extant IPSASB conceptual framework alongside its latest exposure drafts ED-76, ED-77 (measurements; ED78 – PPE; and ED-79, noncurrent assets. The purposes of this research are among other things, to: determine whether consolidated revenue fund balances are reasonably captured and reported; determine whether capital development fund balances with correspondence fixed capital assets are reasonably captured and reported; and the same for government’s portion of foreign reserves, public equity in state-owned and other enterprises; sovereign wealth fund with its assets, heritage assets, etcetera. The overall goal and objective of the present study is to improve the contemporary public sector accounting standards and strengthening of the layout of government financial reporting and rendition of reliable, transparent and user-friendly sets of accounts and presentation of financial position of government entities worldwide. Previously, Alozie’s (2020) fund accounting and government financial reporting duly identified discrepancies in structure of government accounting. Specifically, the presentation of treasury account balances should be capture and rendered in two under two sub-headings, treasury single account and MDA’s subsidiary or imprest bank account balances. Carrying balance(s) held in the single treasury account(s) should tally with either the primary fiscal balance or overall treasury surplus or deficit balance are not always reconciled and adding up with figures provided from the Budget of Office (Ball & Plfugrath, 2012). Flowing from these array of accounting problems and challenges deemed it necessary to perform to investigate these accounting issues and proffer some remedies.

Design and method: Ex-post quantitative analyses method with mixture of mixture of synthesis of archival information, conceptual framework-contextual analysis and case studies is adopted. Materials employed in the analyses and modernisation of financial reporting architecture were extracted from financial statements and natural resources valuations of selected sovereign entities on secondary data-sets obtained from archival information of sovereign entities drawn different regions. Tools of analyses used include: descriptive statistics, simple averages, moving averages, percentages, means, mean of means with actual score of 50% to total scores as test statistics.

Results: Results show that CRF (TSA) is fairly and correctly reflected in financial position of focal entities; capital development fund has been eliminated with fixed asset accounting has been reasonably recorded in the assessed entities. Government share or portion of foreign reserves is not properly and effectively captured; but government’s equity capital investments in State enterprises have been reasonably reported. Sovereign wealth fund with related investments assets existing in several countries are not duly captured / reflected in consolidated financial statements presently. Heritage assets are sparsely implemented in few climes. The proven reserves of minerals / natural resources are not yet reflected in financial reports and without disclosures as accompanying notes. There is no decentralisattion of accounting and financial reporting by ministries, departments and agencies in virtually all the surveyed entities. Annual fiscal operating surplus or deficit was reported in all the focal entities. Majority of surveyed entities did not record public funds but all recorded excessive negative general reserve fund balances.

Conclusion(s): This research established several accounting issues and head-items for amendments or transformation within the structure of government-wide accounting. It identified core assets sovereign wealth assets, government share of national foreign reserves, heritage asset, public fund / general reserve as core assets and liabilities to improve upon. The need for disclosure statement for the proven reserves of minerals / natural resources in consolidated financial statements is established as well. Quality of information content of government financial reporting on the whole is below average. There is urgency in strengthening and modernising the existing financial reporting architecture for possible harmonisation and convergence in near future. Relevant authorities of standard setting agencies, accounting researchers and the profession to consider implementing the amendment of the structure of government accounts in some issues/areas of our core findings With the resulting serial omission or non-inclusion of government assets and liabilities in CFS lends support to strengthening and modernisation of financial reporting architecture.


Keywords: Amendment of government accounting structure; modernisation financial reporting architecture; All inclusive fund liabilities and assets accounting; Public fund / general reserve fund accounting;

JEL Classification: H50; H70; H83

Suggested Citation:

Alozie, Christopher, Structural Transformation of Government-Wide Accounting and Modernisation of GPFRs Financial Reporting Architecture (June 7, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4130421 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4130421
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
50 References
C Alawattage , J Azure
Behind the World Bank's ringing declarations of "social accountability": Ghana's public financial management reform
Critical Perspectives on Accouting Posted: 2019
I J Allan
Un-reserved fund balances and local government finance; The government finance officers association
Research Bulletin (Research and Analysis on Current Issues) Posted: 1990-09
C E Alozie
Government accounting reforms, and adoption of accrual accounting in Nigeria's public sector
M.Sc (Accounting) Dissertation Posted: 1973
M Sc
Economics Desertation, Department of Economics
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
81
ABSTRACT VIEWS
662
RANK
708,207
50 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Bureaucracies & Public Administration eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies