Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
VfM Audit and the UK Public Sector: A Critical Review of the VfM Reports

Financial Accountability and Management, 2022

Posted: 1 Jul 2022

Abdelhafid Benamraoui

University of Westminster

Eleni Chatzivgeri

University of Edinburgh Business School

Surendranath Rakesh Jory

University of Southampton - Southampton Business School

Ranjitha Ajay

Great Lakes Institute of Management Chennai

Date Written: June 9, 2022

Abstract

The study investigates why value for money (VfM) audit, in its current form, fails to capture the actual state-of-affairs in the UK public organisations. To address this, we utilize a VfM assessment matrix and key public sector performance indicators to critically evaluate the VfM reports published by two main public bodies in the U.K., i.e., the National Health Services (NHS) and the police authorities, alongside the reports published by the National Audit Office (NAO) and Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services (HMICFRS). Our results reveal that the VfM reports do not clearly show how the 3Es (i.e., economy, efficiency and effectiveness) associated with the VfM assessment are attained. There are also limited suggestions on the public bodies’ service output or social outcomes and how performance targets are fulfilled. We deduce that the VfM audit's failure to capture these elements significantly curtails the benefits of the VfM exercise to public bodies. We argue for complementing the current VfM assessment with a review of the performance of these bodies based on the services they offer as well as their strategic objectives.

Keywords: Public sector, police authorities, NHS, VfM audit, VfM reports

JEL Classification: M42; M48

Suggested Citation:

Benamraoui, Abdelhafid and Chatzivgeri, Eleni and Jory, Surendranath Rakesh and Ajay, Ranjitha, VfM Audit and the UK Public Sector: A Critical Review of the VfM Reports (June 9, 2022). Financial Accountability and Management, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4132584
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
324
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies