Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Vice-Chancellor Pay and Performance: The Moderating Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics

Elmagrhi, M. and Ntim, C.G., Vice-chancellor pay and performance: The moderating effect of vice-chancellor characteristics. Work, Employment and Society. Forthcoming

35 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Mohamed Elmagrhi

University of Huddersfield, Huddersfield Business School, Queensgate, Huddersfield, HD1 3DH; Swansea University, School of Management; University of Huddersfield - Business School

Collins G. Ntim

University of Southampton Business School, UK; University of Southampton

Date Written: June 13, 2022

Abstract

This paper investigates the association between UK higher education institutions (HEIs) long- and short-term performance measures, and the pay of vice-chancellors/principals (VCs) in an era of intense neoliberalism/financialisation of HEIs, and consequently ascertains the extent to which the VC pay–performance nexus is moderated by VC characteristics. Using a longitudinal sample of UK HEIs, our baseline findings suggest that HEIs that prioritise meeting long-term social performance targets tend to pay their VCs low pay packages, whilst HEIs that focus on achieving short-term reputational performance targets pay their VCs high pay packages. We show further that the VC pay–performance relationship is moderated/explained largely by VC characteristics. Our findings are robust to controlling for alternative governance mechanisms, endogeneities, alternative performance measures and different estimation techniques. Our findings offer empirical support for optimal contracting and prestige theories with significant implications for the sector.

Keywords: Vice-Chancellor/principal Pay, Performance, Vice-Chancellor/principal Characteristics, Governance, Financialisation/neoliberalism, HEIs, Prestige Theory, UK

JEL Classification: G3

Suggested Citation:

Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Elmagrhi, Mohamed and Ntim, Collins G., Vice-Chancellor Pay and Performance: The Moderating Effect of Vice-Chancellor Characteristics (June 13, 2022). Elmagrhi, M. and Ntim, C.G., Vice-chancellor pay and performance: The moderating effect of vice-chancellor characteristics. Work, Employment and Society. Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4134997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4134997
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
34 References
R B Adams , D Ferreira
Women in the boardroom and their impact on governance and performance
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 94 , issue 2 , p. 291 - 309 Posted: 2009
R Bachan , B Reilly
Is UK vice chancellor pay justified by university performance?
Fiscal Studies , volume 36 , issue 1 , p. 51 - 73 Posted: 2015
J G Ballo
Labour market participation for young people with disabilities: The impact of gender and higher education
Work, Employment & Society , volume 34 , issue 2 , p. 336 - 355 Posted: 2020
L A Bebchuk , J M Fried , D I Walker
Managerial power and rent extraction in the design of executive compensation
University of Chicago Law Review , volume 69 , p. 751 - 846 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
767
RANK
576,053
3 Citations
34 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies