Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Technology and Local State Capacity: Evidence from Ghana

HKS Working Paper No. RWP22-005

97 Pages Posted: 17 Jun 2022

James Dzansi

University of Ghana

Anders Jensen

Harvard University - Harvard Kennedy School (HKS)

David Lagakos

University of California, San Diego (UCSD) - Department of Economics; National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER)

Henry Telli

University of Ghana

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: April 2022

Abstract

This paper studies the role of technology in local-government tax collection capacity in the developing world. We first conduct a new census of all local governments in Ghana to document a strong association between technology use and property tax billing, collection and enforcement. We then randomize the use of a new revenue collection technology within one large municipal government. Revenue collectors using the new technology delivered 27 percent more bills and collected 103 percent more tax revenues than control collectors. Collectors using the new technology learned faster about which households in their assigned areas were willing and able to make payments. We reconcile these experimental findings in a simple Beckerian time-use model in which technology allows revenue collectors to better allocate their time towards households that are the most likely to comply with taxpaying duties. The model's predictions are consistent with experimental evidence showing that treatment collectors are more likely to target households with greater liquidity, income, awareness of taxpaying duties, and satisfaction with local public goods provision.

JEL Classification: H2,H71,O12,O33

Suggested Citation:

Dzansi, James and Jensen, Anders and Lagakos, David and Telli, Henry, Technology and Local State Capacity: Evidence from Ghana (April 2022). HKS Working Paper No. RWP22-005, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4138549 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138549
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
45 References
P Balan , A Bergeron , G Tourek , J L Weigel , R Congo
Local Elites as State Capacity: How City Chiefs Use Local Information to Increase Tax Compliance in the D Posted: 2020
A V Banerjee , S Chassang , S Montero , E Snowberg
A Theory of Experimenters: Robustness, Randomization, and Balance
American Economic Review , volume 110 , p. 1206 - 1230 Posted: 2020
G Becker , C Mulligan
Deadweight Costs and the Size of Government
The Journal of Law and Economics Posted: 2003
A Bergeron , P Bessone , J Kabeya , G Tourek , J Weigel
Optimal Assignment of Bureaucrats: Evidence from Randomly Assigned Tax Collectors in the DRC Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
89
ABSTRACT VIEWS
571
RANK
538,134
45 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Decision-Making in Economics & Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies