Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Introducing a Funding Component in a PAYG Pension System: A Cost-Benefit Analysis with an Application to Italy

Posted: 25 Jul 2022

Roberta Melis

Università degli Studi di Sassari

Date Written: June 17, 2022

Abstract

Demographic and economic evolution show how many public pension systems in the last decades have been facing the problem of financial sustainability. Usually financed by PAYG mechanism, they need constant balance between the amount of contributions and payments at all times. In the medium run public pension schemes are affected by the current demographic structure; it is therefore necessary to plan ahead strategies that can limit the probability of default. The aim of this paper is to implement a model introducing a funded component in a full PAYG pension system and to evaluate the benefits of this introduction in terms of long run financial sustainability, by using the main sustainability indicators already known in the actuarial approach. Moreover, some indicators are introduced to measure the cost for the pension system, with applications to the Italian public pension system.

Keywords: Public pension system, demographic risk, sustainability, funded component

JEL Classification: H55, H60, J11

Suggested Citation:

Melis, Roberta, Introducing a Funding Component in a PAYG Pension System: A Cost-Benefit Analysis with an Application to Italy (June 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4139278
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
238
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Social Security, Pensions & Retirement Income eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies