Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Investing with the Government: A Field Experiment in China

University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-79

61 Pages Posted: 22 Jun 2022

Emanuele Colonnelli

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Bo Li

Tsinghua University - School of Economics & Management

Ernest Liu

Princeton University

There are 3 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 21, 2022

Abstract

We study the demand for government participation in China’s venture capital and private equity market. We conduct a large-scale, non-deceptive field experiment in collaboration with the leading industry service provider, through which we survey both sides of the market: the capital investors and the private firms managing the invested capital by deploying it to high-growth entrepreneurs. Our respondents together account for nearly $1 trillion in assets under management. Each respondent evaluates synthetic profiles of potential investment partners, whose characteristics we randomize, under the real-stakes incentive that they will be introduced to real partners matching their preferences. Our main result is that the average firm dislikes investors with government ties, indicating that the benefits of political connections are small compared to the cons of having the government as an investor. We show that such dislike is not present with government-owned firms, and this dislike is highest with best-performing firms. Additional results and follow-up surveys suggest political interference in decision-making is the leading mechanism why government capital is unattractive to private firms. We feed our experimental estimates and administrative data into a simple model of two-sided search to discuss the distributional effects of government participation. Overall, our findings point to a “grabbing hand” interpretation of state-firm relationships reflecting a desire by the government to keep control over the private sector.

JEL Classification: C93,D2,D20,D22,G0,G02,G18,G28,G3,G38,G4,O0,O1,O14,O16,O17,O25,O3,O38,O4,O40,O47

Suggested Citation:

Colonnelli, Emanuele and Li, Bo and Liu, Ernest, Investing with the Government: A Field Experiment in China (June 21, 2022). University of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper No. 2022-79, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4142756 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4142756
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
75 References
F Allen , J Cai , X Gu , J Qian , L Zhao , W Zhu
Centralization or Decentralization? The Evolution of State-Ownership in China Posted: 2021
G Aminadav , E Papaioannou
Corporate control around the world
The Journal of Finance , volume 75 , p. 1191 - 1246 Posted: 2020
M Amstad , G Sun , W Xiong
The Handbook of China's Financial System Posted: 2020
A Andonov , Y V Hochberg , J D Rauh
Political representation and governance: Evidence from the investment decisions of public pension funds
The Journal of Finance , volume 73 , p. 2041 - 2086 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
106
ABSTRACT VIEWS
790
RANK
92,184
2 Citations
75 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper Series

Follow

Behavioral & Experimental Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies