Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
‘Armchair Auditors’ – Rhetoric Versus Reality: Citizen Uses of Public Accountability Rights Under England's New Audit Regime

45 Pages Posted: 23 Jun 2022

Megan Waugh

University of Leeds - School of Geography

Fanny Malinen

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Joel Benjamin

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Stuart Hodkinson

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

Recent parliamentary and media scrutiny of the audit profession in the wake of major corporate failure has focused on the private sector with insufficient recognition of the impacts private auditors are now having in the public sector. The Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014, introduced by the UK’s coalition government, transferred audit of local government to private audit firms. This radical reorganization of public sector audit regime was accompanied by claims that the public would take on the role of ‘armchair auditors’ playing a key part in ensuring continued scrutiny of local government. Our paper presents findings from the first study of public engagements with audit and accountability rights. Using a field experiment approach, we analysed the coordinated uses of these rights by two groups of citizens. We found that limits within the legislation and the loss of clear regulatory oversight of local audit are creating additional barriers to public scrutiny and we demonstrate how privatization of audit and reduction in audit fees have further reduced the scope of local audit and widened already existing accountability gaps, undermining citizen efforts to bring issues of public interest to light. We challenge the idea that the public are not engaging with audit because they lack the time, commitment or expertise to do so and argue that paying attention to current engagements provides useful insights into weakness and accountability gaps in both local government and the current audit regime.

Keywords: Armchair auditor, Public accountability, Local government audit, Privatization

Suggested Citation:

Waugh, Megan and Malinen, Fanny and Benjamin, Joel and Hodkinson, Stuart, ‘Armchair Auditors’ – Rhetoric Versus Reality: Citizen Uses of Public Accountability Rights Under England's New Audit Regime. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4144895 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4144895
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
R Andrews , G A Boyne , J Law , R M Walker
External Constraints on Local Service Standards: The Case of Comprehensive Performance Assessment in English Local Government
Public Administration , volume 83 , issue 3 , p. 639 - 656 Posted: 2005
T Arrieta
Austerity in the United Kingdom and its legacy: Lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic. The Economic and Labour Relations Review , volume 33 , p. 238 - 255 Posted: 2022
M Barzelay
Central Audit Institutions and Performance Auditing: A Comparative Analysis of Organizational Strategies in the OECD
Governance , volume 10 , issue 3 , p. 235 - 260 Posted: 1997
J Bates , J ; -Bates
The strategic importance of information policy for the contemporary neoliberal state: The case of Open Government Data in the United Kingdom
Information Policy and the Crises of Neoliberalism: the case of Open Government Data in the UK , volume 31 , p. 388 - 395 Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
79
ABSTRACT VIEWS
600
RANK
718,946
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies