Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Information Content of Government Financial Disclosure

Posted: 26 Jul 2022

Zhiwei Chen

Shanghai University of Finance and Economics

Sibo Liu

Hong Kong Baptist University

Angie Wang

The Hong Kong Polytechnic University - School of Accounting and Finance

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

Using textual analysis methods, we investigate the information content of government financial disclosure and its implications. Specifically, we establish several stylized facts using the comprehensive annual financial reports (CAFRs) issued by municipal entities. We first document large differences between government and corporate disclosures. For example, municipal issuers are less likely to be distorted by opportunistic incentives in choosing the language. We then construct traditional textual measures (e.g., sentiment and financial constraint) commonly used in the corporate disclosure research to proxy for government administrative conditions. Their strong predictive power of the cost of borrowing, economic growth, and financing and investment behaviors of the local governments confirms the value of government financial disclosure in the financial markets. However, we also examine the financial market reaction to CAFRs and find that investors react slowly to most of the text-based signals in CAFRs, suggesting that this important information channel is not fully utilized by market participants. Our study supports the bondholder protection policies through improving the quality of government disclosure.

Keywords: Textual analysis, government disclosure, government reporting, financial disclosure

JEL Classification: M41, M48, G10, G14, M40

Suggested Citation:

Chen, Zhiwei and Liu, Sibo and Wang, Angie, The Information Content of Government Financial Disclosure (July 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4154831
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
791
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Efficiency eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies