Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Government Valuation

77 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 9 Dec 2024

Oliver Giesecke

Stanford University - Hoover Institution

Haaris Mateen

C. T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston

Marcelo Jardim Sena

Stanford University

Date Written: July 12, 2022

Abstract

We construct a novel data set on the fiscal position of municipalities in the United States and document a secular decline in their financial health. Our data combines financial data from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFRs) of municipalities along with Census data of their revenue and expenditure cash flows. We find that 61% of municipalities operate with a negative net position---akin to a negative book equity position in the corporate context. We find that most of the decline originates from the accumulation of legacy obligations, i.e., pensions and other post-employment benefits (OPEBs); this is recognized by municipal bond markets through higher credit spreads. Since accounting values are backward looking, we turn to the market valuation of local governments' equity by estimating a stochastic discount factor (SDF) that matches the valuation of a wide range of assets in the economy to price untraded future tax and expenditure claims. Market values of equity are also negative for a sizable fraction of municipalities. The negative equity position---in terms of book and market values---for some local governments suggests the presence of implicit insurance by state and federal governments. Our results suggest that as many as half the municipalities with negative market value of equity would need 5 years of higher government intervention.

Keywords: Municipal finance, financial distress, public finance, fiscal sustainability, empirical asset pricing

JEL Classification: H30, H71, H72, H74, H75, G12

Suggested Citation:

Giesecke, Oliver and Mateen, Haaris and Jardim Sena, Marcelo, Local Government Valuation (July 12, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4160225 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4160225
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
M Adelino , I Cunha , M A Ferreira
The economic effects of public financing: Evidence from municipal bond ratings recalibration
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 9 , p. 3223 - 3268 Posted: 2017
K R Ahern
The business of city hall Posted: 2021
J E Alt , R C Lowry
Divided government, fiscal institutions, and budget deficits: Evidence from the states
American Political Science Review , volume 88 , issue 4 , p. 811 - 828 Posted: 1994
F Alvarez , U J Jermann
Using asset prices to measure the persistence of the marginal utility of wealth
Econometrica , volume 73 , issue 6 , p. 1977 - 2016 Posted: 2005
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
342
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,780
RANK
200,848
2 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies