Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Limits to Political Capture: Evidence from Patent Grants, Disclosures, and Litigation

58 Pages Posted: 27 Jul 2022 Last revised: 4 Mar 2024

Christine Cuny

New York University (NYU) - Leonard N. Stern School of Business

Mihir N. Mehta

University of Chicago - Booth School of Business

Wanli Zhao

Bocconi University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: July 1, 2022

Abstract

Substantial evidence suggests that regulatory agencies in the U.S. can be captured by the politicians who oversee them. We provide novel evidence of a federal agency in which capture is limited: the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Although patent applications from politically connected firms are more likely to be approved despite being of lower ex-post quality, additional analyses suggest these outcomes are not indicative of capture. In particular, the disclosure quality of connected patents' legal claims increases through the review process, narrowing the scope of the patents and constraining the intellectual property rights. Furthermore, connected patents are no more likely than others to be litigated ex-post, suggesting these patent grants are not spurious. Our findings provide insights into how the design of a regulator can limit the benefits that accrue to politically connected firms.

Keywords: JEL classification: H1, M40, O30, O32, P14 Innovation, Judiciary Committee, Political Economy, USPTO, Information Flows

JEL Classification: G38, H11, L51, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Cuny, Christine and Mehta, Mihir N. and Zhao, Wanli, Limits to Political Capture: Evidence from Patent Grants, Disclosures, and Litigation (July 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4170209 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4170209
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
64 References
D Acemoglu
Introduction to Modern Economic Growth Posted: 2008
P Aghion , P Howitt
A Model of Growth Through Creative Destruction
Econometrica , volume 60 Posted: 1992
P Akey , R Z Heimer , S Lewellen
Politicizing consumer credit
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 139 , p. 627 - 655 Posted: 2021
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , S Y Park
Intellectual Property Rights, Holdup, and the Incentives for Innovation Disclosure Posted: 2024
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
404
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,110
RANK
166,639
1 Citations
64 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Financial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies