Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Are Charitable Donations and Volunteering Substitutes or Complements? New Evidence from Recent Tax Changes

27 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2022

Bradley Heim

Indiana University Bloomington - School of Public & Environmental Affairs (SPEA)

Laura Montenovo

Indiana University

Abstract

We examine the degree of complementarity or substitutability of donations of time and money. Utilizing data on volunteering from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics that spans 2001-2019, we estimate the impact of recent changes in the after-tax price of giving on the amount of volunteering (both on the extensive and intensive margins). We find that donations of time and money are generally complements, though the effect size was modest on the extensive margin – an increase in the tax price of 0.01 is estimated to decrease volunteering by less than 0.4% - and was insignificant on the intensive margin. Further, estimated effects decrease appreciably when within-individual over time variation is utilized. The results imply that tax reforms that raise the price of giving may lead to a reduction in the number of individuals who volunteer, albeit modestly.

Keywords: tax reforms, philanthropic behavior, cash donations, volunteering, labor supply, complements, substitutes

Suggested Citation:

Heim, Bradley and Montenovo, Laura, Are Charitable Donations and Volunteering Substitutes or Complements? New Evidence from Recent Tax Changes. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4170753 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4170753
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
9 References
James Andreoni , William G Gale , John Karl Scholz
Charitable Contributions of Time and Money Posted: 1996
A Apinunmahakul , V Barham , R A Devlin , W Bryant , Haekyung Keith , Hyojin Jeon-Slaughter , Aaron Kang , Tax
Gifts of money and gifts of time, Estimating the effects of tax prices and available time
Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 38 , p. 43 - 73 Posted: 1992
S Carlin , Paul
Evidence on the Volunteer Labor Supply of Married Women
Southern Economic Journal , volume 67 , issue 4 , p. 801 - 824 Posted: 2001
Brian Duncan
Modeling charitable contributions of time and money
Journal of Public Economics , volume 72 , p. 213 - 242 Posted: 1999
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
71
ABSTRACT VIEWS
579
RANK
765,896
9 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Miscellaneous Issues eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies