Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Developing Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing at the National Level to Support Policy Recommendations for Radiation Oncology in Belgium

Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, Issue 1, 107013, 2023

Posted: 10 Aug 2022 Last revised: 30 Jan 2023

Noémie Defourny

The University of Manchester

Sophie Hoozée

Ghent University - Department of Accountancy and Corporate Finance

Jean-François Daisne

UZ Leuven Hospitals

Yolande Lievens

Ghent University Hospital - Department of Radiation Oncology

Date Written: July 15, 2022

Abstract

We use time-driven activity-based costing (TDABC) to estimate the cost of radiation treatments at the national level. Although TDABC has mostly been applied at the hospital level, we demonstrate its potential to estimate costs at the national level, which can provide health policy recommendations. Contrary to work on reimbursement or charges representing the health care system perspective, we focus on resource costs from the perspective of health care service providers. Using the example of Belgian inputs and results, we discuss development of a TDABC model. We also present insights into the challenges that arose during model design and implementation. Finally, we discuss recent examples of policy implications in Belgium as well as some caveats that should be considered when developing resource allocation models at the national level.

Keywords: Cost allocation, Health care, Reimbursement, Time-driven activity-based costing

JEL Classification: M41, M48, I18

Suggested Citation:

Defourny, Noémie and Hoozée, Sophie and Daisne, Jean-François and Lievens, Yolande, Developing Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing at the National Level to Support Policy Recommendations for Radiation Oncology in Belgium (July 15, 2022). Journal of Accounting and Public Policy, Vol. 42, Issue 1, 107013, 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4177413
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
391
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies