Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
How Much Do Tax-Exempt Organizations Benefit from Tax Exemption?

Tax Policy Center Research Report (2022)

55 Pages Posted: 23 Aug 2022

Nathan Born

U.S. Department of the Treasury; University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Adam Looney

University of Utah - David Eccles School of Business; Brookings Institution; Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Consumer Finance Institute Visiting Scholar

Date Written: July 27, 2022

Abstract

Tax-exempt organizations are subsidized relative to taxable organizations because income related to furthering their core mission is excluded from income tax. The value of this subsidy is unclear. There is no government-provided estimate, and the tax benefit for any organization depends on the organization’s activities. Using samples of administrative data on tax-exempt organizations, we estimate the tax expenditure associated with federal income tax exemption for organizations exempt under Sections 501(c)3 to 501(c)8 of the Internal Revenue Code. In 2018, we estimate the value of income tax exemption for these sectors was $21.2 billion. Most organizations do not benefit from tax exemption because they produce no income. Hospitals and health systems, which earn profit from providing patient care, benefit the most from tax exemption, followed by institutions with endowment income that is not disbursed furthering exempt causes, and certain other large organizations that derive income from the services they provide.

Keywords: taxation, charity, tax expenditure, tax-exempt organizations

JEL Classification: H2, H4, H5, H3, H6, H8

Suggested Citation:

Born, Nathan and Looney, Adam, How Much Do Tax-Exempt Organizations Benefit from Tax Exemption? (July 27, 2022). Tax Policy Center Research Report (2022), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4182696 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4182696
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
Paul Arnsberger
Statistics of Income Bulletin. Internal Revenue Service. Statistics of Income Division Posted: 2012
Rosanne Altshuler , Alan Auerbach
The Significance of Tax Law Asymmetries: An Empirical Investigation
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , issue 1 , p. 61 - 86 Posted: 1990
Ge Bai , Gerard Anderson
A More Detailed Understanding of Factors Associated With Hospital Profitability
Health Affairs , volume 35 , p. 889 - 897 Posted: 2016
L Burman
Is the tax expenditure concept still relevant?
National Tax Journal , volume LVI , issue 2 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
182
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,069
RANK
379,149
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies