Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Local Governments' Response to Fiscal Shocks: Evidence from Connecticut

58 Pages Posted: 12 Aug 2022

Oliver Giesecke

Stanford University - Hoover Institution

Haaris Mateen

C. T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston

Date Written: August 8, 2022

Abstract

The deteriorating fiscal position of municipalities across the United States raises the question which adjustment mechanisms municipalities have at their disposal and what their effects are. We utilize quasi-experimental variation in the year of property tax assessments in the state of Connecticut to provide causal evidence of the fiscal adjustment following a large decline in property values after the Great Financial Crisis. We find that local governments adjust tax rates to maintain stable tax revenues; there is no change in public employment levels and limited adjustments of public services. Our micro data on people's location further allows us to causally estimate the migration elasticity to a change in property tax rates. We find evidence of inter-state migration in response to an increase in property tax rates; and no statistically significant response of intra-state migration. Detailed property and location choice data reveal the elasticity of migration with regard to the property tax bill. An increase in the property tax bill by ten percent leads to an average increase in the migration propensity by about 1.5%.

Keywords: Municipal finance, financial distress, migration, public finance, tax base, fiscal sustainability

JEL Classification: H30, H71, H72, H75

Suggested Citation:

Giesecke, Oliver and Mateen, Haaris, Local Governments' Response to Fiscal Shocks: Evidence from Connecticut (August 8, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4185090 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4185090
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
1 Citations
Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh
The remote work revolution: Impact on real estate values and the urban environment: 2023 AREUEA Presidential Address
Real Estate Economics , volume 51 , issue 1 , p. 7 Posted: 2023
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
390
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,570
RANK
173,507
1 Citations
36 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies