Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of International Public Sector Accounting Standards on Economic Policy Uncertainty

Public Money & Management, DOI:10.1080/09540962.2022.2154066

Posted: 29 Aug 2022 Last revised: 21 Dec 2022

Reza Hesarzadeh

Ferdowsi University of Mashhad

Parisa Behbahani Nia

Alzahra University

Date Written: August 20, 2022

Abstract

This study examines whether and how the implementation of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) affects economic policy uncertainty. The study further explores how political stability, regulatory quality, government effectiveness, and the level of country development moderate the relationship between IPSAS and economic policy uncertainty. Using a sample of 22 countries for the period 2014–2020, findings reveal that the implementation of IPSAS reduces economic policy uncertainty. Moreover, this negative relationship between IPSAS and economic policy uncertainty is more pronounced among countries having lower political stability, poorer regulatory quality, and lower government effectiveness, as well as among developing countries. Overall, this paper reveals that the economic impacts of IPSAS are greater in countries that do not have robust mechanisms to support transparency and accountability.

Keywords: IPSAS, Public sector, Economic, Government, Uncertainty

JEL Classification: M4, M43, H72, H83, L32

Suggested Citation:

Hesarzadeh, Reza and Behbahani Nia, Parisa, The Impact of International Public Sector Accounting Standards on Economic Policy Uncertainty (August 20, 2022). Public Money & Management, DOI:10.1080/09540962.2022.2154066, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4188303
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
346
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies