Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
When Do Governments ‘Go Dark’? Evidence on Governments’ Disclosure Choices in Periods of Uncertainty

Forthcoming at European Accounting Review

46 Pages Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Claudio Columbano

Università degli Studi Roma Tre

Marco Trombetta

IE Business School - IE University

Date Written: August 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine the effect of uncertainty shocks on the level of fiscal guidance – the guidance issued by governments on the expected evolution of the fiscal and economic outlook. Because uncertainty makes governments’ expectations less precise but potentially more valuable to users, we hypothesize that a disclosure dilemma leads governments to balance a higher demand for guidance with a higher probability of issuing inaccurate forecasts. Using natural disasters to randomize uncertainty shocks in our sample, we find that on average, governments issue less guidance in periods of uncertainty. The effect is driven by a reduction in the number of forecasts on the future evolution of balance sheet items, but only when governments have low refinancing needs and face a relatively quiet bond market. Instead, governments that maintain a stable level of guidance in periods of uncertainty appear to cater to coercive isomorphic pressures stemming from creditors. We further document that the relative ‘transparency’ of governments in periods of uncertainty is negatively related to indicators of fiscal reporting quality. Collectively, the evidence indicates that in the public sector, uncertainty leads to a trade-off between disclosure quantity and quality.

Keywords: governments, uncertainty, accountability, guidance, transparency, Stability and Growth Pact

JEL Classification: M41, M48, H68

Suggested Citation:

Columbano, Claudio and Trombetta, Marco, When Do Governments ‘Go Dark’? Evidence on Governments’ Disclosure Choices in Periods of Uncertainty (August 23, 2022). Forthcoming at European Accounting Review, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4198347 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4198347
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
L Aaskoven , D D Lassen
Political Budget Cycles
Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics Posted: 2017
A Abadie , S Athey , G W Imbens , J M Wooldridge
When should you adjust standard errors for clustering?
, volume 24003 Posted: 2017
A Alesina , C Favero , F Giavazzi
The output effect of fiscal consolidation plans
Journal of International Economics , volume 96 , p. S19 - S42 Posted: 2015
A Alesina , R Perotti
Fiscal discipline and the budget process
American Economic Review , volume 86 , issue 2 , p. 401 - 407 Posted: 1996
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
429
RANK
753,521
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies