Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Studying Nonprofit Organizations during the COVID-19 Crisis in 2021: A Systematic Literature Review and a Research Agenda

20 Pages Posted: 6 Sep 2022

Guillaume Plaisance

Bordeaux University

Date Written: February 1, 2022

Abstract

The Covid-19 crisis has disrupted the lives of organizations and researchers. Nonprofit organizations (NPOs) have remained at the heart of the scholars' concerns because they are essential to society. This article proposes to continue the research effort dedicated to NPOs in times of Covid-19 crisis thanks to a systematic literature review on this topic. It clarifies the structure of the research published in 2021 and highlights several areas of research to be expanded upon. The theoretical implications and research avenues proposed by the literature in 2021 allow for the construction of a rich research agenda. This article is therefore intended to be useful to both researchers (with the agenda) and practitioners with the priority managerial issues that the literature has identified in 2021.

Keywords: Nonprofit management, pandemic crisis, literature review, research agenda, bibliometrics

JEL Classification: H12, L31

Suggested Citation:

Plaisance, Guillaume, Studying Nonprofit Organizations during the COVID-19 Crisis in 2021: A Systematic Literature Review and a Research Agenda (February 1, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4207973 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4207973
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
163
ABSTRACT VIEWS
775
RANK
418,259
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Industrial & Organizational Psychology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies