Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax-related Incentives and Expense Allocation in Nonprofit Organizations: Evidence from Japan

The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming

Posted: 21 Sep 2022

Makoto Kuroki

Yokohama City University

Hiroki Natsuyoshi

Independent

Date Written: August 30, 2022

Abstract

We investigate the relationship between the incentives of Japanese nonprofit organizations to avoid losing their tax-exempt status and the extent of tax-motivated expense allocation. In Japan, nonprofit organizations are deprived of tax-exempt status if the ratio of expenses of taxable activities to total expenses (TaxExpRatio) exceeds a regulatory threshold of 50%. We estimate the tax-motivated expense allocation and non-taxable activities and define the term TaxExpRatio before the allocation: TRBA. Using 12,027 organization-year observations (4,763 unique nonprofit organizations) and a regression model, we find that nonprofits with TRBA over the regulatory threshold tend to allocate less expenses to taxable activities. In addition, we assume that a larger board of directors has a stronger incentive to protect the nonprofit’s tax-exempt assets because individuals or organizations that provide resources to nonprofits often become board members, thus conducting stronger monitoring to avoid losing the tax-exempt status. The empirical results show that the relationship between TRBA over the regulatory threshold and allocated expenses to taxable activities is moderated by board size. This finding suggests that larger boards in nonprofit organizations are more incentivized to avoid tax avoidance behavior that may result in losing their tax-exempt status.

Keywords: Public interest incorporated association and foundation, expense allocation, tax avoidance, regulation, nonprofit governance.

JEL Classification: M41, G14, G34, L15, C10

Suggested Citation:

Kuroki, Makoto and Natsuyoshi, Hiroki, Tax-related Incentives and Expense Allocation in Nonprofit Organizations: Evidence from Japan (August 30, 2022). The International Journal of Accounting, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4214795
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
329
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies