Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Allocation of Funds in Bilevel Subsidy Welfare Programs

70 Pages Posted: 6 Oct 2022 Last revised: 13 May 2024

Wei Wei

University of New Hampshire - Peter T. Paul College of Business and Economics

Priyank Arora

University of South Carolina - Department of Management Science

Senay Solak

Isenberg School of Management, University of Massachusetts Amherst

Date Written: September 17, 2022

Abstract

Most subsidy welfare programs operate in a bilevel hierarchical structure, wherein a funding agency allocates funds to multiple service agencies. These service agencies invest in activities within their areas to generate social impact for beneficiaries by enhancing the quantity and quality of services at local providers. The funds allocation decisions in such programs are complicated by consideration of equity in social impact generated across different areas, information asymmetry between different entities, and intricate relationships among contextual factors in social impact generation. We develop a model to analyze how the funding agency’s funds allocation decisions lead to the most overall social impact in an equitable manner. Considering two scenarios involving restrictions on the use of additional funds that may become available for only one area or one activity, we find that: Under the area-only scenario, the funding agency should allocate more funds to a service agency when either the other service agency may receive more additional funds, it has a relatively balanced mix of subsidy-accepting and non-accepting providers, or outreach activity is more likely to yield a higher investment return and it has fewer non-accepting providers; Under the activity-only scenario, the optimal split of funds between the service agencies could be significantly different when allocating initial versus additional funds. Further, comparison of decisions with and without equity consideration shows that the effect of the contextual factors on the optimal allocation decisions could be directionally opposite. Given the growing impetus to consider equity within their operations, we demonstrate how the funding agencies should adjust their allocation strategies in the presence of such considerations. Further, using a case study based on Massachusetts’ child care subsidy program, we illustrate that the proposed optimal decisions achieve equity while enhancing the overall social impact by approximately 3% versus current allocation decisions.

Keywords: bilevel subsidy programs, funds allocation, equity, socially responsible operations, optimization

Suggested Citation:

Wei, Wei and Arora, Priyank and Solak, Senay, Allocation of Funds in Bilevel Subsidy Welfare Programs (September 17, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4221975 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4221975
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
66 References
K Adams , M Katz
Review of Massachusetts child care subsidy eligibility policies and practices Posted: 2015-05-05
N Arnosti , P Shi
Design of lotteries and wait-lists for affordable housing allocation
Management Science , volume 66 , issue 6 , p. 2291 - 2307 Posted: 2020
P Arora , M Rahmani , K Ramachandran
Doing less to do more? Optimal service portfolio of non-profits that serve distressed individuals
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management , volume 24 , issue 2 , p. 883 - 901 Posted: 2022
P Arora , R Subramanian
Improving societal outcomes in the organ donation value chain
Production and Operations Management , volume 28 , issue 8 , p. 2110 - 2131 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,330
RANK
221,251
66 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies