Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Corporate Governance Guidelines: How to Improve Disclosure and Promote Better Corporate Governance in Public Companies

Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 49, No. 257, 2022

100 Pages Posted: 23 Sep 2022

Jennifer O'Hare

Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law

Date Written: September 21, 2022

Abstract

If you are a shareholder of a public corporation, you may think it would be easy to find basic information about your shareholder rights, such as whether shareholders have the right to call special stockholder meetings. You would probably assume that the information would be disclosed in the company’s “Corporate Governance Guidelines,” (CGGs) which, according to a New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rule, must be posted on the company’s website for shareholder review. But, as this article shows, companies are not required to disclose information about shareholder rights in their corporate governance guidelines, and most companies have chosen not to provide this information voluntarily. CGGs, therefore, have largely failed in their goals of promoting informed investors and improving the ability of shareholders to monitor board performance.

Although clearly an important part of a public company’s corporate governance, CGGs have not been given serious scholarly attention. This is the first article to address that deficiency. The article reviews and analyzes the CGGs of the fifty largest public companies in the United States. I discovered that CGGs generally do not disclose information on today’s most important corporate governance issues: those relating to shareholder rights and environment and social issues (ESG). The NYSE rule is stuck in the corporate governance environment of 2003, when the rule was adopted. It is time for the NYSE to revisit its rule to improve the effectiveness of CGGs.

Specifically, I recommend that listed companies should be required to provide more information on policies relating to shareholder rights and ESG. In addition, I recommend that the NYSE should adopt a new approach to CGG disclosure. Rather than simply requiring listed companies to disclose their corporate governance practices, the NYSE should require companies to disclose whether they have adopted a particular corporate governance policy and if they have not, why not. The increased disclosure and the new “disclose or explain” approach will ensure that shareholders are better informed and will lead to improved corporate governance at public companies.

Keywords: corporate governance, ESG, public companies, shareholder rights

Suggested Citation:

O'Hare, Jennifer, Corporate Governance Guidelines: How to Improve Disclosure and Promote Better Corporate Governance in Public Companies (September 21, 2022). Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 49, No. 257, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4225970
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
157
ABSTRACT VIEWS
857
RANK
432,018
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance Law eJournal

Follow

Corporate & Takeover Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies