Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Audit of Budget Programs in European Union Countries

Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance Vol. 9(4), pp. 841 - 851, 2021 DOI: 10.13189/ujaf.2021.090430

11 Pages Posted: 16 Nov 2022

Inna Hnydiuk

Vinnytsia Institute of Trade and Economics of State University of Trade and Economics

Ganna Datsenko

Vinnytsia Institute of Trade and Economics of State University of Trade and Economics

Irina H. Krupelnytska

Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics - Vinnytsia Institute of Trade and Economics

Olena Kudyrko

Vinnytsa Institute of Trade and Economics of State University of Trade and Economic

Olena Prutska

Vinnytsia Institute of Trade and Economics of SUTE

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: August 5, 2021

Abstract

Audit of budget programs in EU countries requires a detailed study of the audit procedure in order to minimize possible deviations and errors in the implementation of programs. The principal result of the audit of budget programs' indicators financed from EU funds is to verify the cost-effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness of the use of budget resources. The purpose of the academic paper is to study the results of the audit of budget programs in EU countries in order to identify the causes and factors that influenced the violations and errors in the use of budget funds. The research methods are as follows: system and logical analysis; information synthesis method; systematization and generalization; comparison method; statistical analysis. Study contributes relevant information and processed data regarding to internal and external audit standards and mechanisms to improving their efficiency. Limitations of the study are possible unknown violations of the budget programs that result in inaccurate data analysis. Results. Conducting audit of the budget programs in the EU in accordance with international auditing standards complies with the generally accepted procedure for audit of using budget funds by beneficiaries. In 2019, as a result of the audit of budget programs by European Commission, it was found that 51 out of 130 transactions (39%) contained violations and errors. A significant number of errors have been found in programs that direct budget funds to research and innovation. It has been revealed that most of the errors were found in the budget program Horizon 2020, in connection with which the European Court of Auditors calls in question the eligibility of all costs declared by the beneficiary for the audit period. The main errors in reporting in other budget programs were reimbursements of travel expenses not related to the implemented EU budget program; the erroneous exchange rate used in the programs was not that provided by the rules of the program. The level of error in conducting audit of budget programs in 2019 has been 4.0%, which is a significant reserve for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.

Keywords: Beneficiary, Cost, Auditor, Expenditure, Transaction

JEL Classification: G20

Suggested Citation:

Hnydiuk, Inna and Даценко, Ганна and Krupelnytska, Irina H. and Kudyrko, Olena and Prutska, Olena, Audit of Budget Programs in European Union Countries (August 5, 2021). Universal Journal of Accounting and Finance Vol. 9(4), pp. 841 - 851, 2021 DOI: 10.13189/ujaf.2021.090430, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4225502
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
137
ABSTRACT VIEWS
569
RANK
337,747
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies