Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Effects of Value Added Tax on the Rate of Government Growth : An OECD Panel Study

In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 259-280

Posted: 7 Dec 2022

Ali R. Özdemir

Independent

Date Written: October 11, 2012

Abstract

Value added tax (VAT) has been a handy instrument, particularly in the financing of European governments during the last quarter of the twentieth century, when their expenditures were rising rapidly. This suggested to many that there could be an association between the share of VAT revenues in total government revenues and the rate of government growth. This paper investigates the effects of VAT on government growth using ordinary least squares with panel corrected standard errors for OECD countries. The results strongly suggest that unlike "cascading type of turnover taxes", VAT does not increase the rate of government growth, rather, it can account for current slowdowns in government growth rates for OECD countries.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: VAT

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Özdemir, Ali R., The Effects of Value Added Tax on the Rate of Government Growth : An OECD Panel Study (October 11, 2012). In: World tax journal. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 4 (2012), no. 3 ; p. 259-280, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4226638
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
120
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies