Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Regulatory Leniency on Compliance: Evidence from the Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation Initiative 

54 Pages Posted: 29 Sep 2022 Last revised: 9 Feb 2023

Mark G. Maffett

University of Miami - Department of Accounting

Delphine Samuels

University of Chicago -- Booth School of Business

Frank Zhou

University of Pennsylvania - The Wharton School

Date Written: September 23, 2022

Abstract

We examine how the SEC’s 2014 Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation initiative (MCDC) affects disclosure compliance in the municipal bond market. The MCDC granted favorable settlement terms to municipal debt issuers and underwriters who voluntarily self-reported having violated SEC disclosure requirements. Although there was widespread participation among underwriters, the vast majority of municipal issuers did not participate in the MCDC initiative despite having publicly observable disclosure violations. Consistent with an improvement in underwriter oversight of the initial bond offering following the MCDC, we find that official statements were less likely to include false claims regarding past disclosure compliance, particularly for issuers with participating underwriters. However, contrary to the SEC's intention, we find that issuers' compliance with continuing disclosure requirements decreased by 9% after the MCDC initiative, compared to a control group of voluntarily disclosing issuers. Overall, our findings provide no evidence that the MCDC improved continuing disclosure compliance; rather, they suggest that the MCDC may have instead exacerbated noncompliance by exposing the weaknesses of the existing regulatory regime.

Keywords: Municipal Bonds, Municipal Disclosure, Regulatory Amnesty, Municipal Underwriters, Compliance, Disclosure Regulation

JEL Classification: G24, G28, H74, M40, M41

Suggested Citation:

Maffett, Mark G. and Samuels, Delphine and Zhou, Frank, The Impact of Regulatory Leniency on Compliance: Evidence from the Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation Initiative  (September 23, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4228284 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4228284
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
Fetch References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
401
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,688
RANK
168,133
2 Citations
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

University of Miami Herbert Business School Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies