Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Sector Audit and the State's Responsibility to ‘Leave No-One Behind’: The Role of Integrated Democratic Accountability

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 24 Oct 2022

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Melina Manochin

Independent

Bimal Arora

Independent

Date Written: October 20, 2022

Abstract

Achieving the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at country and local levels – and ensuring ‘no one is left behind’ - requires that nation states commit to solving complex social and societal challenges through collaborative, democratic means. Technocratic and bureaucratic procedures alone are insufficient. In addition to satisfying international actors, governments must discharge integrated democratic accountability through inclusive stakeholder engagement with and between diverse and locally embedded social actors and institutions. Democratic accountability requires recognising and preserving social complexity and plurality mediated through public dialogues between actors and institutions. Concurrently, global initiatives like the SDGs offer opportunities for the UN’s member states to show their sincerity to international principles and standards while engaging with local practices that promote democratic means of resolution and policy implementation.

This research analyses how public sector audit can potentially support and hold a government accountable for its international pledges to SDGs, including stakeholder engagement. In India the public sector auditor has proactively undertaken a performance audit on that government’s ‘preparedness to implement SDGs’. This research demonstrates how the government is held accountable for its policies and actions on SDGs, through analysing the interrelated actions of India’s two key democratic institutions – the Supreme Audit Institution and Public Accounts Committee. We make recommendations for improving state accountability for SDGs through national level policies, mechanisms and processes of stakeholder engagement and dialogues.

At an international level, we argue for the UN to develop more effective mechanisms to hold governments accountable for policies and progress on their SDG commitments. Such mechanisms could include regular progress and performance audits and monitoring both nationally and internationally. These could contribute to improved leadership and integrated policy-making across layers and levels within a nation state. We also highlight the areas for further research.

Keywords: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Accountability, Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs), Deliberative Democracy

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Manochin, Melina and Arora, Bimal, Public Sector Audit and the State's Responsibility to ‘Leave No-One Behind’: The Role of Integrated Democratic Accountability (October 20, 2022). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4254325
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
260
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies