Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Transparency and Community Trust in Village Government: Does Corruption Perception Matter?

Akbar, R., Pilcher, R., & Perrin, B. (2012). Performance measurement in Indonesia: the case of local government. Pacific Accounting Review, 24(3), 262-291. Antlöv, H., Wetterberg, A., & Dharmawan, L. (2016). Village governance, community life, and the 2014 village law in Indonesia. Bulletin of Ind

Posted: 10 Nov 2022

Hafiez Sofyani

Universitas Muhammadiyah Yogyakarta

Rizal Yaya

Independent

Zakiah Saleh

University of Malaya

Date Written: November 1, 2022

Abstract

When Indonesian village governments were granted authority, independence, and decentralized budget from the central government through Village Law No. 6 of 2014, most people predicted that it would not promote better village development. Instead, such a policy would increase corruption cases and subsequently persuade people not to trust the village government. It might interfere with the legitimacy of the village government’s autonomy. Insufficient institutionalization of good governance in the village was one of the reasons. Hence, this study aims to examine the association between transparency after village governance reform -as one of the good governance principles- toward village community trust intervened by corruption perception of villagers. This study employed a survey method and involved 128 village governments in the Special Region of Yogyakarta Province, Indonesia, as the samples. The Partial Least Square (PLS) technique was used for hypothesis testing. This study discovered that transparency was positively associated with low corruption perception and high village community trust. Moreover, corruption perception from villagers was negatively associated with community trust and had a role as a partial intervening variable.

Keywords: Transparency; Corruption Perception; Community Trust; Village Government

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Sofyani, Hafiez and Yaya, Rizal and Saleh, Zakiah, Transparency and Community Trust in Village Government: Does Corruption Perception Matter? (November 1, 2022). Akbar, R., Pilcher, R., & Perrin, B. (2012). Performance measurement in Indonesia: the case of local government. Pacific Accounting Review, 24(3), 262-291. Antlöv, H., Wetterberg, A., & Dharmawan, L. (2016). Village governance, community life, and the 2014 village law in Indonesia. Bulletin of Ind, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4263183
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
306
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Institutions & Transition Economics: Political Economy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies