Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Borrowing Choices Of Local Governments And The Term Structure Of Interest Rates

70 Pages Posted: 13 Dec 2022 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Davide E. Avino

University of Liverpool; Financial Mathematics and Computation Cluster

Dennis De Widt

Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University

Date Written: November 20, 2022

Abstract

We study how local governments' debt financing decisions relate to the term structure of interest rates. Using a novel database of loans taken out by local governments in England, we find that the yield spread is the main determinant of the adjustable-rate loan share. Our findings demonstrate that these public sector institutions minimize their short-term costs at the expense of long-term public welfare gains. Consistent with these observations, we find that the effect of the yield spread is stronger for financially-constrained local governments that experience negative cash flow shocks. We also show that the adoption of adjustable-rate loans allows local politicians to maintain lower taxes suggesting that myopia related to political economy considerations can be an important channel driving the borrowing decisions of local governments.

Keywords: Debt Financing, Local Government, Loan Choice, Interest Rates, Taxation, Political Process

JEL Classification: D72, D81, E43, G20, H63, H71, H74

Suggested Citation:

Avino, Davide E. and De Widt, Dennis, Borrowing Choices Of Local Governments And The Term Structure Of Interest Rates (November 20, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4284772 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4284772
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
88 References
A Alesina , A Cukierman
The politics of ambiguity
Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 105 , p. 829 - 850 Posted: 1990
K Allen
UK council body seeks cheaper funding in debt markets
Financial Times Posted: 2018-03-23
A Ang , J Bai , H Zhou
The great wall of debt: Real estate, political risk, and Chinese local government financing cost Posted: 2016
A Ang , V Bhansali , Y Xing
The muni bond spread: Credit, liquidity, and tax Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
715
RANK
677,550
88 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: National, State & Local Government; Intergovernmental Relations eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies