Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Standards of Care and Supplemental Fiduciary Duties Governing the Conduct of Trustees Investing and Managing Assets of Public Employee Retirement Systems in the 50 States and the District of Columbia

89 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2022

W. Scott Simon

Independent

Date Written: November 27, 2022

Abstract

This paper is a review and analysis of the different fiduciary standards of care that govern the conduct of trustees responsible for investing and managing assets held by defined benefit plans state-wide in the public employee retirement systems (“PERS”) of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. A state-wide PERS that offers a defined benefit plan typically has the most plan participants and holds the largest amount of assets within a state’s network of public employee pension plan trusts.

Keywords: PERS, fiduciary standards of care, public employee defined benefit plans

Suggested Citation:

Simon, W. Scott, Standards of Care and Supplemental Fiduciary Duties Governing the Conduct of Trustees Investing and Managing Assets of Public Employee Retirement Systems in the 50 States and the District of Columbia (November 27, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4287238 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4287238
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
148
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,116
RANK
453,964
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies