Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Voluntary Tax Payments and Institutional Dynamics

46 Pages Posted: 23 Dec 2022 Last revised: 6 Mar 2023

Beau Grant Barnes

Washington State University

Han Yan

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Kiely Yonce

University of Detroit Mercy

Date Written: January 31, 2024

Abstract

Municipalities are often unable to collect the full taxable value of real estate due to property tax exemptions granted to nonprofits. However, nonprofits are increasingly extending their activities beyond local boundaries, stretching the traditional justification for such exemptions. Faced with the changing focus of nonprofits, declining funding, and pressure to avoid tax increases on other local property, some municipalities turn to nonprofits for voluntary payments called ‘payments in lieu of taxes’ (PILOTs). In this study, we examine the determinants and consequences of compliance with the largest PILOT program in the U.S., located in Boston, Massachusetts. Using institutional theory to develop our hypotheses, we find no evidence to suggest that compliance with PILOT requests is associated with the nonprofit’s ability to pay or its financial performance. Instead, we find that the nonprofit’s vulnerability to potential tax exemption challenges are significant predictors of PILOT compliance. We interpret this evidence to mean that compliance with PILOT requests, although voluntary, is driven by coercive institutional pressure rather than normative institutional pressure. Further, we present evidence consistent with a trade-off between PILOT compliance and mission-related spending, with more compliant organizations reporting lower mission-related spending. The findings of this study should be of interest to municipalities considering implementing or reforming an existing PILOT program, as well as nonprofit donors, management, and boards of directors.

Keywords: Payments in lieu of taxes; PILOT; tax; nonprofit; public policy, Nonprofit, Tax, PILOT, Public Policy

Suggested Citation:

Barnes, Beau Grant and Yan, Han and Yonce, Kiely, Voluntary Tax Payments and Institutional Dynamics (January 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4299475 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4299475
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
54 References
R K Aggarwal , M E Evans , D Nanda
Nonprofit boards: Size, performance and managerial incentives
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 53 , issue 1-2 , p. 466 - 487 Posted: 2012
B S Aharonson , S Bort
Institutional pressure and an organization's strategic response in Corporate Social Action engagement: The role of ownership and media attention
Strategic Organization , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 307 - 339 Posted: 2015
B E Ashforth , B W Gibbs
The double-edge of organizational legitimation
Organization Science , volume 1 , issue 2 , p. 177 - 194 Posted: 1990
R Balakrishnan , L Eldenburg , R Krishnan , N S Soderstrom
The influence of institutional constraints on outsourcing
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 48 , issue 4 , p. 767 - 794 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
669
RANK
492,934
54 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Fiscal Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies