Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Determinants of the Duration of Participatory Budgeting Programmes in Brazilian Municipalities

35 Pages Posted: 27 Dec 2022

Vítor Castro

Loughborough University

Fabiana Rocha

University of São Paulo (USP) - Department of Economics

Date Written: December 16, 2022

Abstract

This paper uncovers the factors that determine the duration of participatory budgeting programmes in Brazilian municipalities using continuous- and discrete-time duration models. The empirical analysis shows that the longer the participatory budgeting programme is, the higher the likelihood of it ending will be. This implies the presence of positive duration dependence. However, more flexible polynomial-in-time and cubic splines specifications show that the behaviour of that likelihood is not monotonic: it increases but only until the fifth year of duration, then it decreases until the ninth year before starting to increase again. This study also shows these programmes are shorter in the northern region of Brazil and in less populated municipalities. However, they are longer when left-wing mayors with a strong mandate are in office – especially if they are re-elected – and when the level of municipal spending per capita and family support programme coverage are high.

Keywords: Participatory budgeting, Brazil, Local government, Duration analysis

JEL Classification: C41, D70, H70, O54

Suggested Citation:

Castro, Vítor and Rocha, Fabiana, The Determinants of the Duration of Participatory Budgeting Programmes in Brazilian Municipalities (December 16, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4304665 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4304665
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
67
ABSTRACT VIEWS
856
RANK
791,953
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

New Institutional Economics eJournal

Follow

Institutional & Transition Economics Policy Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies