Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Line Item and Budget: Towards a Theory of Line Item in Budgeting

36 Pages Posted: 4 Jan 2023

Yilin Hou

Syracuse University; CESifo (Center for Economic Studies and Ifo Institute)

Date Written: September 2022

Abstract

This paper treats “line-item” as an important, albeit informal, invention in human history that paved the way for the development of accounting and budgeting which formed the foundation for modern business and public administration. Using the informatics perspective, the paper takes line-item as the basic unit in the writing system of accounting and in content (information) arrangement in accounts and budgets, with its status equal to what the decimal and binary systems are in numeracy.
The modern budget movement that started in the United States at the turn of the 20th century advocated for the use of exhaustive lists of line-items by objects of expenditure in compiling the earliest executive budgets, which was a natural, logical, and correct step in the context of rampant deficiencies and overspending. Thus, the earliest budget format in the US was called “line-item budget,” a misnomer in hindsight. However, since its adoption as the easiest and most convenient format for budgets, the line-item format has been mostly blamed, even criticized among scarce and infrequent recognitions. This study examines the line-item format from the informatics perspective, offering a new light to dissipate misperceptions about the format.
The paper defines LINE ITEM as AN INFORMATION UNIT that serves as the foundation for budgeting, which clarifies the fundamentals of this format about its advantages, convenience, and conciseness. The paper cites examples to highlight the deep roots and longevity of line item, from the earliest modern budgets in Britain, France, and Germany as well as century-long series of executive budgets of US federal, state, and local governments. The paper finally delves into the mechanisms of functionality to demystify the unfitness between this format and program budgeting, PPBS, and performance budgeting in the 20th century. The paper predicts that line-item will likely stay forever. Put together, the informatics fundamentals of lint-item explain why this basic unit and the budget format of its namesake has sturdily survived all criticisms through the 20th century and will likely stay forever.

Keywords: Budget(ing), Informatics, Line-item, Cognitive psychology, Budget format

JEL Classification: D81, D61, D83, M41, N01

Suggested Citation:

Hou, Yilin, Line Item and Budget: Towards a Theory of Line Item in Budgeting (September 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4312905 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4312905
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
203
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,698
RANK
342,507
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Budget, Deficit, & Debt eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies