Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance of Nonprofit Organizations

Governance of Nonprofit Organizations. in Research Handbook on Nonprofit Accounting, edited by D. Tinkelman and L. M. Parsons. Edward Elgar Publishing.

Posted: 6 Jan 2023 Last revised: 1 Sep 2023

Christine Petrovits

College of William & Mary - Mason School of Business

Michelle Yetman

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: 2023

Abstract

Nonprofit governance systems are designed to monitor, motivate, and guide managers to ensure they are working to achieve their organization’s mission and fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities. Considerable heterogeneity exists in governance practices across the nonprofit sector. We first describe the multidimensional set of governance mechanisms that can be implemented by boards, in conjunction with regulators, donors, creditors, and other stakeholders. We then discuss prior accounting research on the consequences and determinants of governance. Studies generally document positive outcomes from adopting effective governance, including enhanced stewardship, improved procurement of resources, and more useful disclosure. Research also suggests that organizational characteristics, board characteristics, and funding sources influence an organization’s governance structure. Finally, we note that there is still much to learn and encourage future research that addresses causality, identifies distinct contexts where specific governance mechanisms may be more or less beneficial, and investigates the role of governance in programmatic accomplishments.

Keywords: Nonprofit, governance, board, audit, IRS Form 990, charitable mission

Suggested Citation:

Petrovits, Christine and Yetman, Michelle, Governance of Nonprofit Organizations ( 2023). Governance of Nonprofit Organizations. in Research Handbook on Nonprofit Accounting, edited by D. Tinkelman and L. M. Parsons. Edward Elgar Publishing., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4318117 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4318117
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,434
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance Practice eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies