Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Budgeting in Public Hospital Trusts: Surplus, Optimism, and Accuracy

Financial Accountability & Management, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1111/faam.12358

Posted: 20 Jan 2023 Last revised: 25 Oct 2023

Nils Arne Lindaas

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU)

Kjartan Sarheim Anthun

Independent

Jon Magnussen

Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU)

Date Written: January 18, 2023

Abstract

Hospitals in Norway are organized as trusts, required to follow the same accounting principles as the private sector, and responsible for funding their own investments. Thus, being able to run with a surplus has been an important part of their management. We analyze hospital budgeting for the whole sector over a nine-year period, looking at the size of the budget surplus, degree of optimism bias, and degree of budget accuracy when comparing to the actual financial results. Our findings indicate that on average, health trusts budget with a relatively small surplus. We find indications for optimism bias, but also examples of pessimism bias. Large health trusts seem to have a higher degree of accuracy of the budgeted results. Trusts that fail to meet budgeted results have a lower budgeted surplus the following period. Capital intensity, an indication of need for new investments, is not associated with budget surplus, degree of optimism, or budget accuracy.

Keywords: hospital, budgeting, optimism, new public management, investments

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Lindaas, Nils Arne and Anthun, Kjartan Sarheim and Magnussen, Jon, Budgeting in Public Hospital Trusts: Surplus, Optimism, and Accuracy (January 18, 2023). Financial Accountability & Management, 2023. https://doi.org/10.1111/faam.12358, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4329212
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
242
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies