Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
PASAI Report: Analysis of Audit Issues and Audit Recommendations for 20 PASAI Members

Pacific Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (PASAI), 2022, https://www.pasai.org/audit-issues-report

The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper

Posted: 20 Jan 2023

David Hay

University of Auckland Business School

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Sione Taufa

University of Auckland Business School

Date Written: December 2022

Abstract

Objectives:
This report examines the main audit issues raised in the audit reports from the financial audit of the Government financial statements for the most recent three years in 20 PASAI countries and states. It also examines management letters or internal control recommendations, and is supported by reference to SAI PMF and PEFA reports where available. The questions examined are, what are the issues reported by SAIs? What is the significance and impact of those issues on government operations and public sector financial management? Taking into account those issues, the report develops proposals and a reporting model.

Procedures:
The procedures used were analysis of the three most recent whole-of-government financial reports and related management letters, along with examination of available PMF and PEFA reports. The report also includes analysis using a model of public value and considering external influences.

Summary of issues raised by SAIs:
We concluded that there are five main causes of audit issues, namely internal control failures; misstatements of liabilities; problems with taxation systems; follow-up of recommendations; and the timeliness of financial reports and completion of audits.. Externally-provided audits and overall effectiveness are also commented on.

External influences:
The project also includes examining external influences on SAIs and on their effectiveness. Factors that are associated with coercive external influences appeared to have a positive effect. Influences leading to greater uncertainty were associated with greater difficulty in providing high quality audits, and normative influences on accounting and auditing did not appear to make a difference.

Causation:
The SAIs’ comments about the causation of audit issues raised and of their recommendations not being adopted included frequent references to staffing issues, including the number of staff employed in accounting functions, and their capability. There were also some references to government entities not agreeing to adopt recommendations.

Proposals. The report proposes:
(1) PASAI helping SAIs to increase their PMF and PEFA scores; (2) encouraging SAIs to follow PMF and PEFA recommendations; (3) publication of an annual report by each SAI; (4) effective use of Parliamentary Public Accounts Committees as a mechanism for monitoring and ensuring quality; (5) government responses being included in management letters; (6) an Office of the Government Accountant in each country or state with the objective of raising the quality of accounting records and reports; (7) reporting Key Audit Matters in the audit reports; and (8) adopting a framework where Material Weaknesses are reported each year.

The reporting framework recommended in this study includes a summary by PASAI of key information that allows SAIs to be compared, and avoids confidentiality issues. The report also suggests a detailed format for reporting information about each SAI.

Link to the full report: https://www.pasai.org/audit-issues-report

Suggested Citation:

Hay, David and Cordery, Carolyn J. and Taufa, Sione, PASAI Report: Analysis of Audit Issues and Audit Recommendations for 20 PASAI Members (December 2022). Pacific Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (PASAI), 2022, https://www.pasai.org/audit-issues-report, The University of Auckland Business School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4331310
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
441
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Auditing eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies