Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Current State of Blockchain and Cryptocurrency for US States

50 Pages Posted: 30 Jan 2023

William Riggs

University of San Francisco - School of Management

Vipul Vyas

University of San Francisco - School of Management

Date Written: December 31, 2022

Abstract

This analysis provides an overview of the current state of blockchain and cryptocurrency in several states in the United States, including the legal and regulatory framework, as well as the level of adoption and acceptance among businesses and consumers. The analysis covers states such as New York, California, Texas, Florida and Illinois, and examines any recent developments or changes in government policies towards cryptocurrency in these areas. The results show that while some states, particularly those with a strong technology sector, have a high level of cryptocurrency adoption and acceptance, others have yet to fully embrace the technology. Additionally, the analysis highlights that different states may have varying regulations and policies regarding cryptocurrency usage and trade. The analysis also covers the development of state-based digital currencies, and the role of state regulators, such as state securities boards, in the governance of cryptocurrencies. Overall, the analysis provides a comprehensive look at the current state of cryptocurrency in several states in the United States.

Keywords: cryptocurrency, blockchain, United States

JEL Classification: P00, 031

Suggested Citation:

Riggs, William and Vyas, Vipul, Current State of Blockchain and Cryptocurrency for US States (December 31, 2022). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4337624 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4337624
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
136
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,726
RANK
487,089
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Cryptocurrency Research eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: National Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies