Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Economic Consequences of Public Pension Accounting Regulation Changes: Evidence from Housing Markets and Local Economies

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming

51 Pages Posted: 28 Feb 2023 Last revised: 28 Feb 2025

Grace Fan

Singapore Management University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: August 22, 2022

Abstract

This paper examines whether and through which channels government pension accounting regulations can affect the local housing markets and economies. Using both a contiguous border-county approach and a city-level analysis in California, I find that regions exposed to more severe public pension underfunding experience lower growth in the housing markets following two GASB pension accounting regulation changes that significantly enhanced the transparency and quality of governments’ pension underfunding information. The effect is stronger for states expected to be more impacted by the rule changes. Such results are driven by the increased attention and improved dissemination of governments’ pension underfunding information that influences the decision-making of both the sponsoring governments and housing investors. More underfunded states also cut back on public spending, and local economic activities are negatively affected following the regulation changes.

Keywords: pension underfunding; housing market; public accounting regulations; economic consequences; local economies

JEL Classification: H75; H83; G12; M48; O18; R30; R31

Suggested Citation:

Fan, Grace, Economic Consequences of Public Pension Accounting Regulation Changes: Evidence from Housing Markets and Local Economies (August 22, 2022). Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4366958 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4366958
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
55 References
D Anantharaman , E Chuk
The impact of governmental accounting standards on publicsector pension funding
Review of Accounting Studies , p. 1 - 49 Posted: 2023
J P Aubry , C V Crawford
Does public pension funding affect where people move
State and Local Pension Plans Posted: 2016
S Bagchi
Do Unfunded Obligations of Public-Sector Pension Plans get Capitalized into House Prices?
Proceedings. Annual Conference on Taxation and Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the National Tax Association , volume 110 , p. 1 - 16 Posted: 2017-01
C Bai , Q Li , M Ouyang
Property taxes and home prices: A tale of two cities
Journal of Econometrics , volume 180 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 15 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
277
ABSTRACT VIEWS
827
RANK
251,747
1 Citations
55 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Singapore Management University School of Accountancy Research Paper Series

Follow

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies