Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Addressing the Last Mile Problem in Open Government Data: Using AIS Technologies to Enhance Governmental Financial Reporting

Forthcoming in the Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting

43 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2023 Last revised: 3 Jul 2025

Huaxia Li

University of Michigan at Dearborn

Danyang (Kathy) Wei

Rutgers, The State University of New Jersry - Accounting & Information Systems

Kevin Moffitt

Rutgers University

Miklos A. Vasarhelyi

Rutgers Business School

Date Written: March 12, 2023

Abstract

Although the Open Government Data (OGD) initiative has gained global momentum over the past two decades, the lack of a machine-readable format for much financial OGD in the US hinders stakeholders’ ability to use this information. This study draws on the "Last Mile Problem"—a term that originally symbolizes inefficiencies in the final stage of delivering goods or services to end-users—to describe the difficulties that stakeholders face when analyzing PDF-type financial OGD. Following a design science methodology, this study proposes a Report Analysis Framework to address this problem, develop processes, and evaluate its performance through a GASB standard-setting process (PIR). Results indicate that this framework achieves a 95.8% accuracy rate for data extraction from governmental reports and is four times faster than GASB’s existing approach. This research contributes to the government accounting literature by applying accounting information system technologies to enhance the usability of OGD for various accounting users.

Keywords: Open Government Data (OGD), Last Mile Problem, Design Science, PDF Extraction, Text Mining, Robotic Process Automation, Government Accounting, Accounting Information Systems (AIS) Open Government Data (OGD)

Suggested Citation:

Li, Huaxia and Wei, Danyang and Moffitt, Kevin and Vasarhelyi, Miklos A., Addressing the Last Mile Problem in Open Government Data: Using AIS Technologies to Enhance Governmental Financial Reporting (March 12, 2023). Forthcoming in the Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4385883 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4385883
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
49 References
Z S Alzamil
Three essays on open government data and data analytics Posted: 2019
B Ansari , M Barati , E G Martin
Enhancing the usability and usefulness of open government data: A comprehensive review of the state of open government data visualization research
Government Information Quarterly , volume 39 , issue 1 Posted: 2022
J Attard , F Orlandi , S Scerri , S Auer
A systematic review of open government data initiatives
Government Information Quarterly , volume 32 , issue 4 , p. 399 - 418 Posted: 2015
I Bora , H K Duan , M A Vasarhelyi , C ( Abigail) Zhang , J Dai
The transformation of government accountability and reporting
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Accounting , volume 18 , issue 2 , p. 1 - 21 Posted: 2021
Load more
1 Citations
Huaxia Li , Marcelo Machado de Freitas , Heejae Lee , Miklos Vasarhelyi
Enhancing Continuous Auditing with Large Language Models: AI-Assisted Real-Time Accounting Information Cross-verification
45 Pages · Posted: 9 Feb 2024 · Last revised: 23 Apr 2024 · Downloads: 874
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
192
ABSTRACT VIEWS
869
RANK
360,957
1 Citations
49 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Information Systems eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies