Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Role of the Auditor in Reducing Misappropriation of Funds in Governmental Institutions. A Case of Zimbabwean Parastatals

65 Pages Posted: 16 Mar 2023

Anthony Tapiwa Mazikana

University of Zimbabwe

Date Written: March 16, 2023

Abstract

When it comes to making decisions regarding a firm, the management, the tax authorities, the lenders, the employees, and the investors all rely on precise and detailed financial data. Audits are an essential component in helping to assure correctness of this kind. Internal audits are performed on a regular basis at many organizations, however these businesses may also benefit from having independent consultancies carry out external audits. It is not unheard of to take part in a conversation in which the Zimbabwean government is criticized for its poor service delivery record, despite the fact that the country's public policies are among the most innovative and cutting edge in the world. The senior management of state enterprises and parastatals should work toward the achievement of a higher standard of excellent and consistent governance. By exhibiting strong leadership, integrity, accountability, transparency, honesty, and assurance, as well as acceptable and thoughtful behavior both within and outside of the office, while honoring ethical ideas and values. In spite of the efforts of the Auditor General's external audit report and internal audit to uncover unethical behavior such as corruption and other ills, disclosures of certain unethical practices, such as falsification of financial statements, bribery, and deliberate non transactions, continue to be reported in the State Enterprises and Parastatals of Zimbabwe. Because of this, a significant amount of money has been misappropriated or wasted, and the company is now on the verge of collapsing as a direct consequence of the problems that prompted this line of inquiry on the impact that auditing has on the ethical behavior of top management. This research intends to establish the relationship between auditing and misappropriation of funds, ascertain the effectiveness of internal audit on senior management's ethical behavior in public sector organizations, examine the effectiveness of external audit on reducing misappropriation of funds by senior management in public sector organizations, establish the effect of auditing on morals of senior management of public sector organisations and determine the effect of audit quality on corporate governance compliance.

Keywords: auditor, internal auditing, external auditing, ethics, funds, parastatals

Suggested Citation:

Mazikana, Anthony Tapiwa, The Role of the Auditor in Reducing Misappropriation of Funds in Governmental Institutions. A Case of Zimbabwean Parastatals (March 16, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4390867 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4390867
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
438
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,164
RANK
151,887
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Social Sciences Education eJournal

Follow

Auditing eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies