Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ghana Integrated Financial Management Information Systems to Enhance the Preparation of Accrual Public Accounts in Ghana

8 Pages Posted: 19 Apr 2023

Isaac Ahinsah-Wobil

University of Buckingham

Date Written: April 6, 2023

Abstract

This paper is a study on the possibilities of using GIFMIS to prepare accrual financial accounts for the government of Ghana and the possibility to achieve accrual public accounts in Ghana. The objective of this research is to explore the current challenges, opportunities and effectiveness of the use of GIFMIS in preparing accrual financial accounts and the feasibility of achieving accrual public accounts in Ghana. The study used qualitative and quantitative research methods. The findings of the study revealed that the use of GIFMIS has the potential to modernize the financial management of the government of Ghana and to achieve the objectives of accrual-basis accounting and financial reporting. Finally, the study concluded that the implementation of GIFMIS is necessary to achieve the desired accrual public accounts in Ghana.

Keywords: GIFMIS

Suggested Citation:

Ahinsah-Wobil, Isaac, Ghana Integrated Financial Management Information Systems to Enhance the Preparation of Accrual Public Accounts in Ghana (April 6, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4411456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4411456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
534
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,284
RANK
119,702
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Economy - Development: Public Service Delivery eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies