Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Project ABC: Unanticipated Affinities and Affect in Hospital Healthcare

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 2 May 2023

Ana Conceição

ISCTE Business School - IUL; BRU-IUL (ISCTE)

Maria Major

ISCTE Business School - IUL; BRU-IUL (ISCTE)

Stewart R. Clegg

University of Technology, Sydney - School of Management; Nova School of Business and Economics

Date Written: April 19, 2023

Abstract

In this paper we present an analysis of how activity-based costing (ABC) was included amongst austerity policy prescriptions within the healthcare sector. Relying on the proposition that an increasing quality of outcomes is achievable simultaneously with a reduction in costs, ABC straddled tensions between the logics of care and business for clinicians but not for administrators. We draw on case study research and use institutional logics and related approaches to analyze how the introduction of ABC became a device that improved communication by clinicians with administrators. When actors’ interests and motivations were aligned, ABC was able to offer professional clinicians value in the hospital in question. The study demonstrates how and why competing logics can coexist where there is ability to affect decision-making.

Keywords: activity-based costing, institutional logics, healthcare, public hospitals, paradox theory

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Conceição, Ana and MAJOR, MARIA and Clegg, Stewart R., Project ABC: Unanticipated Affinities and Affect in Hospital Healthcare (April 19, 2023). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4423950
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
210
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies