Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Technological Development on the Accounting Systems of Public Institutions in Ghana

IJNRD, Volume 8, Issue 3 March 2023

21 Pages Posted: 3 May 2023 Last revised: 4 May 2023

Zakaria Abubakari

Simon Diedong Dombo University of Business and Integrated Development Studies

Samuel Namoog

Bolgatanga Technical University

Date Written: April 22, 2023

Abstract

The main purpose of this study is to investigates the impact of adoption of technology on the accounting systems of public institutions in Ghana. The study also assesses the extent of technological adoption and application in accounting systems of public institutions in Ghana. Finally, the study assesses the challenges faced by public institutions in the implementation of technology in their accounting systems. A descriptive study design was used to gather information from 127 respondents from selected public institutions in the Tamale Metropolis. Both purposive and stratified random sampling methods were used to select the respondents. Questionnaires were respectively administered to the respondents. The data was analyzed by means of descriptive and inferential statistics using the SPSS version 29. The Z-test statistics was used to test the hypothesis to establish significance. The study established that the level of adoption of technology in the public institutions is high. The study also revealed that the use of technology in the accounting system of public institutions has positive significant on the accounting systems of public institutions. Majority of the respondents revealed that the use of technology in the accounting systems of public institutions has, among others, contributed to improved decision making, enhanced accountability, strengthened effective budgeting, and aiding long-term financial planning. The use of technologies in public institutions has come with challenges. Include resistance to changes and modern ways of doing things, lack of financial resources for staff training, audit difficulties associated with use of technology, the complexity of accounting software packages and lack of political support for public financial management reforms. Since the adoption of technology has significant positive impact on the accounting systems of public institutions in Ghana, it is recommended that Government and donor organizations should support public Sector entities with computers and capacity of staff to enhance the implementation of government reforms.

Keywords: public institutions, technology, accounting, systems, financial management

Suggested Citation:

Abubakari, Zakaria and Namoog, Samuel, The Impact of Technological Development on the Accounting Systems of Public Institutions in Ghana (April 22, 2023). IJNRD, Volume 8, Issue 3 March 2023, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4426390
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
623
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,515
RANK
98,290
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies