Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Review of IPSASs Compliance in Sovereigns’ Financial Reporting

38 Pages Posted: 19 May 2023

Christopher Alozie

University of Nigeria

Date Written: May 5, 2023

Abstract

This study identified eight specific assets and liabilities items and issues omitted in the structure of government-wide accounting. It reviewed IPSASs compliance in sovereigns’ financial statements of sovereign entities and aimed to improve uniformity in financial reporting. Quantitative method is employed, using content review of financial statements of sovereign entities through conversion of extracted into variables for analysis. Techniques of analyses adopted is mean value of mean of means ratios1 or minimum of 50% minimum actual event score to total expected score ratio as test statistic in measuring results. Results for treasury single account/consolidated revenue fund; capital expenditure and fixed asset; financial investments with public equity capital funds’ yield positive outcomes. In effect, these three accounting items were reasonably reflected in financial statements in compliance with IPSASs. However, government’s official portion of foreign reserves with foreign reserve fund; sovereign wealth investment asset and SWF savings fund; heritage assets with capital special reserve fund were negative and not properly captured and reflected in financial statements. Similarly, disclosure statements for the proven resources’ reserves were not rendered and ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) stand-alone accounting were not decentralised in majority of focal entities. The paper concluded that five out of eight accounting items /issues investigated were omitted and were not IPSASs compliant. These findings confirmed that there is disparity, elements of incompleteness and material defects in government-wide accounting in post-IPSASs implementation system. Standard setting agencies is encouraged to implement amendments we advocated, issue pronouncements to strengthen convergence in government financial reporting.

Keywords: sovereigns financial reporting; accounting omissions; material defect; IPSASs compliance; decentralised reporting; disclosures

JEL Classification: M40, M41, M49

Suggested Citation:

Alozie, Christopher, Review of IPSASs Compliance in Sovereigns’ Financial Reporting (May 5, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4439433 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4439433
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
98
ABSTRACT VIEWS
494
RANK
627,127
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies