Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Taxing the Way to Lower Pay: The Impact of Section 4960 Excise Tax on Nonprofit Compensation

35 Pages Posted: 9 May 2023 Last revised: 26 Jan 2024

Steven Balsam

Temple University - Department of Accounting

Curtis M. Hall

Drexel University - Bennett S. LeBow College of Business

Erica Harris

Florida International University (FIU) - School of Accounting

Kyle Smith

Mississippi State University - School of Accountancy

Date Written: January 5, 2024

Abstract

We examine the effect on nonprofit (NPO) executive compensation of Internal Revenue Service code (IRC) section 4960 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) which imposed a 21% excise tax on nonprofit employee compensation over $1 million per covered individual. Using a difference-in-differences analysis on IRS Form 990 data for almost 40 thousand nonprofit employee-year observations from 2015 to 2020, we find a lower growth rate for treated employee compensation post section 4960. Our results are robust to the use of alternative treatment specifications as well as control samples, e.g., employees earning more than $1 million but not covered under section 4960; medical professionals specifically exempt from section 4960. These findings suggest that tax policy can be used to reduce executive compensation, at least in the context of nonprofits, which are an important part of the economy that has been less studied than for profits.

Keywords: Nonprofit Organizations; Highly Compensated Employees; Executive Compensation; Excise Tax

JEL Classification: G38, H20, M52

Suggested Citation:

Balsam, Steven and Hall, Curtis M. and Harris, Erica and Smith, Kyle, Taxing the Way to Lower Pay: The Impact of Section 4960 Excise Tax on Nonprofit Compensation (January 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4440159 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4440159
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
202
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,156
RANK
344,140
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Tax eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies