Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Nonprofit Organizations’ Financial Obligations and the Paycheck Protection Program

Management Science, Forthcoming

29 Pages Posted: 30 May 2023 Last revised: 13 Aug 2023

Daniel Neely

University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee

Gregory D. Saxton

Schulich School of Business, York University

Paul A. Wong

University of California, Davis - Graduate School of Management

Date Written: April 1, 2023

Abstract

We examine nonprofit organizations’ involvement in the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). The PPP provided participants with forgivable loans to pay employee salaries, increasing participants’ financial flexibility during the pandemic. We examine the associations between nonprofits’ pre-pandemic financial obligations (e.g., long-term debt and donor-restricted net assets) and PPP participation and participants’ loan characteristics. First, we find nonprofit organizations participated at a lower rate than other small business industries and that nonprofits with greater financial obligations were more likely to participate in the program. Second, we find financial obligations were positively associated with the loan amount received as a percentage of total payroll costs. Lastly, while approximately 11 percent of nonprofits failed to obtain loan forgiveness, we find nonprofits with restricted net assets were more likely to have their loans forgiven. Our results suggest nonprofits with greater debt and donor obligations used the PPP to increase their financial flexibility.

Keywords: COVID-19, Paycheck Protection Program, Nonprofit Organizations, Financial Obligations

JEL Classification: H50, H81, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Neely, Daniel and Saxton, Gregory D. and Wong, Paul A., Nonprofit Organizations’ Financial Obligations and the Paycheck Protection Program (April 1, 2023). Management Science, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4443816
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
51
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
914,805
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Fiscal Policies & Behavior of Economic Agents eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies