Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling Systemic Corruption Through Group Size and Salary Dispersion of Public Servants
Heliyon

13 Pages Posted: 22 May 2023 Publication Status: Published

Pablo Javier Valverde

Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador

Jaime Fernandez

Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador

Edwin Buenaño

Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador

Juan Carlos Gonzalez-Avella

Union International de Banques (UIB)

Mario G. Cosenza

Yachay Tech University

Abstract

We investigate an agent-based model for the emergence of corruption in public contracts. Thereare two types of agents: business people and public servants. Both business people and publicservants can adopt two strategies: corrupt or honest behavior. Interactions between businesspeople and public servants take place through defined payoff rules. Either type of agent can switchbetween corrupt or honest strategies by comparing their payoffs after interacting. We measurethe level of corruption in the system by the fractions of corrupt and honest agents for asymptotictimes. We study the effects of the group size of the interacting agents, the dispersion with respectto the average salary of the public servants, and a parameter representing the institutional controlof corruption. We characterize the fractions of honest and corrupt agents as functions of thesevariables. We construct phase diagrams for the level of corruption in the system in terms of thesevariables, where three collective states can be distinguished: i) a phase where corruption dominates;ii) a phase where corruption remains in less than 50% of the agents; and iii) a phase wherecorruption disappear. Our results indicate that a combination of large group sizes of interactingservants and business people and small dispersion of the salaries of public servants, contributes tothe decrease of systemic corruption in public contracts.

Keywords: Social Dynamics, Game Theory, Complex Systems, Agent-Based Models

Suggested Citation:

Valverde, Pablo Javier and Fernandez, Jaime and Buenaño, Edwin and Gonzalez-Avella, Juan Carlos and Cosenza, Mario G., Controlling Systemic Corruption Through Group Size and Salary Dispersion of Public Servants. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4447140 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4447140
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
K Abbink , D Serra
Anticorruption policies: Lessons from the lab
Research in Experimental Economics , volume 15 , p. 77 - 115 Posted: 2012
J Anderson , D Bernstein , J Brun , A Habershon , F Recanatini , E Willebois , S Zimmermann
Anticorruption initiatives: Reaffirming commitment to a development priority Posted: 2019
R Theobald
What is corruption?
Corruption, Development and Underdevelopment , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 1990
J Andvig
The economics of corruption: A survey
Studi Economici , volume 1 , p. 57 - 94 Posted: 1991
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
58
ABSTRACT VIEWS
515
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Heliyon
All Journals (10965)
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Government Expenditures & Related Policies eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies