Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Network Accountability in Healthcare: A Perspective from a First Nations Community in Canada

Ufodike, A., Okafor, O. N., & Opara, M. (2022). Network Accountability in Healthcare: A Perspective from a First Nations Community in Canada. Accounting Perspectives, 21(1), 101-129.

29 Pages Posted: 31 May 2023

Akolisa Ufodike

York University - Atkinson School of Administrative Studies; Graduate Studies in Public Policy & Law

Oliver Nnamdi Okafor

Toronto Metropolitan University

Michael Opara

Independent

Date Written: March 16, 2022

Abstract

This study examines the role of accountability in the governance and delivery of healthcare to a First Nations community in Canada. Drawing on actor network theory, this study explores the role of accountability in the formation and sustenance of a healthcare network using the case study of a First Nations healthcare organization. The study provides insights into how accountability helps to sustain a network of actors with divergent interests and a plurality of strategies. It finds that network accountability is the central mechanism that motivates the principal actors in the network to reconstitute themselves and converge around the purpose of strengthening governance. This study also finds evidence of accountability as a multidimensional construct that facilitates the sustenance of the federal government as the controlling actor in the network. This study provides fresh empirical insights gained from a flesh-and-blood, actual network that acknowledges the context of a marginalized group—namely, First Nations peoples. Furthermore, this study extends and presents a viable accountability model that can be adopted as the federal government enters into self-governance agreements with First Nations peoples. In contrast to the dominant literature on accountability, this study adopts the unique context of a marginalized group in a market-based developed economy.

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1911-3838.12283

Keywords: actor network theory, First Nations, governance, healthcare, networkaccountability

Suggested Citation:

Ufodike, Akolisa and Okafor, Oliver Nnamdi and Opara, Michael, Network Accountability in Healthcare: A Perspective from a First Nations Community in Canada (March 16, 2022). Ufodike, A., Okafor, O. N., & Opara, M. (2022). Network Accountability in Healthcare: A Perspective from a First Nations Community in Canada. Accounting Perspectives, 21(1), 101-129., Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4450265
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
46 References
M Alam , S Lawrence , R Nandan
Accounting for economic development in the context of post-colonialism: The Fijian experience
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 135 - 157 Posted: 2004
R Baker , B Schneider
Accountability and control: Canada's First Nations reporting requirements
Issues in Social and Environmental Accounting , volume 9 , issue 2 , p. 117 - 145 Posted: 2015
R Baker , B Schneider , R B Anderson
Programme devolution accountability for first nations: To whom for what?
International Journal of Business and Globalisation , volume 8 , issue 3 , p. 421 - 434 Posted: 2012
M Bovens
Analysing and assessing accountability: A conceptual framework
European Law Journal , volume 13 , issue 4 , p. 447 - 468 Posted: 2007
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
304
46 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies