Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Key Forces Compelling the Monitoring of Hospital Performance: An Exploratory study

Financial Accountability & Management (Forthcoming)

Posted: 18 Jun 2023

Rosemarie Kelly

South East Technological University

Sheila O Donohoe

South East Technological University

Gerardine Doyle

University College Dublin (UCD)

Date Written: March 31, 2023

Abstract

Performance management in the public sector is both multifaceted and convoluted. This is particularly pertinent in hospitals, which are complex institutional organisations. Our paper explores the key drivers compelling Irish public acute-care hospitals to monitor their performance. The context of our study is located against the unique historical backdrop of the Irish health service, whose evolution over time reflects religious control, underfunding by the State and reliance on a decentralised structure up until the early 2000s. This study was conducted during 2009 -2010, in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008-2009. Interviews were conducted with members of the hospital executive management team, comprising clinical and non-clinical senior managers, using the framework of Kelly et al. (2015) to explore and analyse respondent perspectives. We propose that a combination of key forces, emanating from new public management (NPM), the institutional environment and its constituent elements, spur hospitals to monitor their performance. The confluence of these forces reveals a perceived change in the institutional logic underpinning hospital performance management. This change involved the substitution of autonomous clinical decision making for a more team-based managerial logic whereby clinicians engaged as part of a multi-disciplinary executive unit and accepted responsibility for hospital performance. This paper contributes to the literature on performance management in public services, and more specifically, builds on and addresses the paucity of research on Irish acute-care hospitals.

Keywords: hospital performance, monitoring, institutional logic, clinicians

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Kelly, Rosemarie and O Donohoe, Sheila and Doyle, Gerardine, Key Forces Compelling the Monitoring of Hospital Performance: An Exploratory study (March 31, 2023). Financial Accountability & Management (Forthcoming), Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4452381
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
184
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies