Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Impact of Privatization on Firm’s Performance in Tanzania (A Reflection of Financial and Profitability Status of Privatized vs Non-Privatized Firms)

25 Pages Posted: 21 Jun 2023

Balozi M. Morwa, (Ph.D)

Catholic University College of Mbeya-CUCoM

Date Written: June 9, 2023

Abstract

This study examined privatization result of privatized public enterprises compared to a corresponding set of enterprises that are still under state ownership then see whether privatization initiatives do put in force state-owned firms to improve their performance. In the light of increasing dissatisfaction and opposition among citizens and policy makers, this study aims to establish performance evidence of privatization benefits and provide advise whether privatization initiatives put in force state owned firms to improve their performance. An ordinary least square step-wise linear regressions were employed to predict enterprise performance from privatization and non-privatization initiatives. The main finding is that, on average, privatization works. That is, profitability analysis supports the hypothesis that State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) with private sector ownership have higher levels of performance than those fully owned by the government. This finding is consistent with success story gathered from privatized enterprises which have been approached and affirmed that in terms of investments and profits parameters, privatized entities have done better than the still-existing public enterprises. However, given the critical role of some public firms that cannot be privatized, recommendations were given on the need for these enterprises adapting and using Private Sector Business Models (PSBMs) so as to no longer be ‘loss makers’ and burden to Government. The study recommends to introduce and set a target return for all public enterprises at a rate close to, or above that of their counterpart firms which have been privatized as a basis for challenging their organizational performance. These findings support the Tanzanian Government move towards further privatization in that SOEs with at least some private sector ownership have greater performance levels.

Keywords: Privatization, State-Owned-Enterprises, Economic Reforms, Tanzania, Poverty Reduction

Suggested Citation:

Balozi, Morwa Makuria, The Impact of Privatization on Firm’s Performance in Tanzania (A Reflection of Financial and Profitability Status of Privatized vs Non-Privatized Firms) (June 9, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4474097 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4474097
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
57 References
Adelaja Odutola , Odukoya
Theoretical and Empirical Issues in Privatization: A Comparative Study of the British and Nigerian Experience
Journal of Social Science , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2007
A Alchian , H Demsetz
Production, Information, Cost and Economic Organization
American Economic Review , volume 62 , p. 11 - 17 Posted: 1972
Al-Jazzaf ; Al-Jazzaf , M I
Impact of privatization on airlines performance: an empirical analysi
Transport Management , volume 5 , p. 45 - 52 Posted: 1999
Bo Andreasson
Privatization in Sub-Saharan Africa: Has It Worked and What Lessons Can be Learnt?
A paper Posted: 1998
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
156
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,054
RANK
434,412
57 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Macroeconomics: Employment, Income & Informal Economy eJournal

Follow

IO: Regulation, Antitrust & Privatization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies