Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Navigating Uncertainty: The Resilience of Third Sector Organizations and Socially-oriented SMEs during the COVID-19 Pandemic

Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming

Posted: 14 Jun 2023

José Manuel Liñares-Zegarra

University of Essex - Essex Business School

John O. S. Wilson

University of St. Andrews

Date Written: May 26, 2023

Abstract

This paper investigates the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on UK third sector (non-profit organizations and social enterprises) and socially-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and provides insights regarding their organizational resilience. Using data from the Longitudinal Small Business Survey, the results of an extensive empirical analysis suggest that relative to commercial (for-profit) SMEs, social enterprises were less likely, and socially-oriented SMEs more likely to perceive the pandemic as an obstacle to business success. Third sector and socially-oriented SMEs were more likely to increase their activities compared to commercial SMEs. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic appears to have had a differential impact on the future plans of third sector and socially-oriented SMEs relative to commercial SMEs. Third sector organizations were less likely to use government-backed loans, suggesting a need for alternative forms of support or financing to weather economic disruptions. Overall, our analysis suggests a resiliency and versatility among third sector and socially-oriented SMEs in dealing with unexpected and significant external shocks.

Keywords: COVID-19 pandemic, organizational resilience, small and medium-sized enterprises, social enterprises, third sector

JEL Classification: M4, L31, L26, I18

Suggested Citation:

Linares-Zegarra, Jose Manuel and Wilson, John O. S., Navigating Uncertainty: The Resilience of Third Sector Organizations and Socially-oriented SMEs during the COVID-19 Pandemic (May 26, 2023). Financial Accountability & Management, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4475876
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
446
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Entrepreneurship & Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies