Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Assessment of The Effectiveness of the Internal Audit on The Performance of The Public Sector: Case Study Of The National Revenue Authority (NRA)

18 Pages Posted: 7 Jul 2023 Last revised: 12 Aug 2023

Dr. Abu Kai Kamara

University of Sierra Leone - Fourah Bay College

Date Written: June 27, 2023

Abstract

Effective IA involves evaluating the organization's internal control system and risk management practices to improve its effectiveness. Internal auditors evaluating the organization's internal control system and risk management practices improve the organization's internal control system and risk management practices and are essential for effective IA. By providing independent assessments and recommendations in these areas, IA contributes to enhancing the organization's overall governance and ensuring the achievement of its objectives while minimizing risks. In addition, activities related to evaluating compliance with laws and regulations and supporting fraud prevention are critical components of effective IA. By ensuring compliance and supporting fraud prevention, IA helps the organization maintain its integrity, ethical standards, and legal obligations while minimizing the risk of financial loss and reputational damage. Furthermore, the activities related to improving the organization's operations and performance are also essential for effective IA. By identifying operational inefficiencies and providing recommendations for improvement, IA helps the organization achieve greater operational effectiveness. Additionally, by evaluating performance management systems and providing insights for improvement, IA contributes to enhancing the organization's overall performance and strategic outcomes. Moreover, by providing recommendations, IA helps management and key stakeholders make informed decisions to enhance the organization's performance, reduce risks, and ensure compliance with relevant requirements.
Although this research contributes to the existent literature on the effectiveness of the internal audit on the performance of the public sector, however, the research findings are not generalizable but limited to NRA although good practices can be adopted from this research.
The research finding reveals that NRA maintained an effective Internal Audit Department that has competent staff members and is resourced by Management in the midst of limited resources that contribute significantly to improving an organization's risk management, internal control, and governance processes. It provides independent and objective assurance, adds value, and supports the audit committee, senior management, and external auditors in fulfilling their respective roles. However, the IA is faced with challenges that serve as a limitation to audits: With the modernization of revenue collection using automated software programs like Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA) World, Electronic Cash Register, and Integrated Tax Administrative System, the audit department should be equipped with automated audit tools or technology to enable the Internal Audit and Controls to deliver on its assurance mandate and proffer appropriate recommendations that will add value and strengthen public confidence. The asymmetry of information and timely provision of information sometimes challenges the delivery of internal audits and also the challenge faced by the internal audit department has been the failure of most departments to respond to audit reports after long waiting times.

Keywords: National Revenue Authority(NRA), Effectiveness, Internal Audit(IA), Performance, Automated System for Customs Data (ASYCUDA, Audit Service Sierra Leone (ASSL)- Office of the Auditor General, Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs)

Suggested Citation:

Kamara, Abu Kai, An Assessment of The Effectiveness of the Internal Audit on The Performance of The Public Sector: Case Study Of The National Revenue Authority (NRA) (June 27, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4492906 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4492906
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
77 References
Oecd
Internal audit
Government at a Glance: Latin America and the Caribbean 2014: Towards Innovative Public Financial Management Posted: 2014
National Revenue Authority Act , issue 11 Posted: 2002
Alqudah
H , Noor H Haslinda
Factors Affecting the Internal Auditors' Effectiveness in the Jordanian public sector
EuroMed Journal of Business , volume 14 , p. 251 - 273 Posted: 2019
Load more
1 Citations
Abu Kai Kamara
An Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Internal Audit at the University of Sierra Leone
18 Pages · Posted: 28 Oct 2023 · Downloads: 134
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
518
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,940
RANK
124,488
1 Citations
77 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies