Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Do Accrual Information Contribute to Municipal Bonds Price? Evidence from Japanese Local Governments Using the eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) Approach

Posted: 18 Jul 2023

Kentaro Haraguchi

Seinan Gakuin University

Date Written: July 18, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to empirically determine the extent to which accrual-based information disclosed by local governments contributes to the pricing of municipal bonds. The usefulness of such information to decision-makers in accounting remains a contentious issue. Additionally, municipal bonds play a significant role as investment vehicles and are the primary means of financing for local governments. Therefore, it is important to examine whether accrual-based information affects their pricing. The analysis is particularly crucial in "non-bankruptcy law countries," with no legislation for local government failure. This is an essential issue to investigate, as many countries worldwide are non-bankruptcy-law countries, and little accounting research has been conducted on their municipal bond markets. This study focuses on the Japanese market as a representative non-bankruptcy law country. We employed eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) as our analytical method, which provides superior regression accuracy compared to the commonly used multiple regression analysis. Additionally, XAI enables quantification of the contribution of accrual-based information to price determination. Hence, the use of XAI overcomes the limitations of multiple regression analyses. Our analysis quantitatively clarifies the components of municipal bond prices and their contributions with an extremely high degree of precision using the XAI. The results demonstrate that accrual-based information disclosed by local governments contributes as much to determining municipal bond prices as traditional disclosure information other than accrual-based information, even in a country with a non-bankrupt legal system, such as Japan. This outcome provides crucial insights into the decision usefulness of the accrual-based information disclosed by local governments and further enhances the potential use of XAI in accounting studies.

Keywords: Local Government, Municipal Bond, Machine Learning, eXplainable AI, Credit Risk

Suggested Citation:

Haraguchi, Kentaro, Do Accrual Information Contribute to Municipal Bonds Price? Evidence from Japanese Local Governments Using the eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) Approach (July 18, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4513522
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
247
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Capital Markets: Asset Pricing & Valuation eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies