Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Political Uncertainty and Cost Stickiness: Evidence from Prefecture-city Official Turnover in China

China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 2, 2022

30 Pages Posted: 11 Aug 2023

Zheyao Pan

Macquarie University

Zhang Guangli

Central University of Finance and Economics (CUFE) - Business School

Huixuan Zhang

Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU)

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: June 1, 2022

Abstract

Purpose
The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of local political uncertainty on the asymmetric cost behavior (i.e. cost stickiness) for listed firms in China.

Design/methodology/approach
In this study, the authors manually collect the turnover data of prefecture-city officials as a measure of exogenous fluctuations in political uncertainty and obtain firm-level financial information from the China Stock Market Accounting Research (CSMAR) database. To perform the analysis, the authors augment the traditional cost stickiness model by including the interaction terms of the prefecture-city official turnover, and firm-level and prefecture-city level control variables.

Findings
The authors find that political turnover leads to a higher degree of cost stickiness, implying that firms retain slack resources when political uncertainty is high. Moreover, the effect of political turnover on cost stickiness is more pronounced for firms residing in regions with weaker institutional environments, and firms that are privately owned and with smaller size. The authors further provide evidence that policy uncertainty and the threat of losing political connection are two underlying channels. Overall, this study documents that the local political process is an important channel that influences corporate operational decisions.

Originality/value
This study provides the first piece of evidence on the relation between political uncertainty and cost stickiness at the local government level. Moreover, the authors propose and demonstrate two underlying channels through which political uncertainty affects firms' asymmetric cost behavior.

Keywords: Cost stickiness, Local official turnover, Political uncertainty, Ownership structure, Institutional environment

JEL Classification: G31, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Pan, Zheyao and Guangli, Zhang and Zhang, Huixuan, Political Uncertainty and Cost Stickiness: Evidence from Prefecture-city Official Turnover in China (June 1, 2022). China Accounting & Finance Review, Vol. 24, No. 2, 2022, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4514743
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
1 Citations
Yamin Xie , Zhichao Li , Wenjing Ouyang , Hongxia Wang
Decoding the Impact of Political Uncertainty on IPO Underpricing in China
China Accounting &amp; Finance Review, volume 27, issue 1, 2025 · 32 Pages · Posted: 3 Mar 2025 · Downloads: 50
Download PDF  Add Paper to My Library
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
582
RANK
418,259
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies