Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Human Development and the Quality of Financial Reporting among the Local Governments in Indonesia

Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation. Forthcoming.

42 Pages Posted: 20 Aug 2023

Fuad Rakhman

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) - Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB)

Singgih Wijayana

Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM)

Date Written: August 12, 2023

Abstract

We investigate whether a local government's level of human development is associated with its financial reporting quality. We employ audit opinion and accruals management to capture financial reporting quality and manually collected data from our sample of 4,254 financial reports of Indonesian local governments from 2010 to 2018. We find that local governments whose citizens have a higher Human Development Index (HDI) and each dimension of human development are more likely to receive an unqualified audit opinion on their financial reports. However, we find that local governments with a higher development index are more likely to use accruals management through revenue overestimation or expense underestimation in preparing the statement of operations. Our results suggest that employees of higher quality, as indicated by a higher HDI, have a greater ability to follow accounting rules resulting in a cleaner audit opinion. However, they might opportunistically use their judgments in making accounting estimates. Finally, our study contributes to the literature by providing insight into how human development and its dimensions are associated with the quality of financial reporting, especially in the public sector in developing countries.

Keywords: quality of financial reporting, human development, local government, life expectancy, education, the standard of living

Suggested Citation:

Rakhman, Fuad and Wijayana, Singgih, Human Development and the Quality of Financial Reporting among the Local Governments in Indonesia (August 12, 2023). Journal of International Accounting, Auditing, and Taxation. Forthcoming. , Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4539036
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
133
ABSTRACT VIEWS
892
RANK
495,993
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Educational Impact & Evaluation Research eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies