Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Characterizing Local Governance Innovations in the Philippines: Insights From a Content Analysis of Galing Pook Documents

AIM RSN PCC Discussion Paper 2022-004

61 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2023

Aubrey Tabuga

AIM Rizalino S. Navarro Policy Center for Competitiveness

Date Written: August 31, 2023

Abstract

This study aims to distill lessons from available literature and document best practices in local governance in the Philippines using the cases of Galing Pook awardees that were documented via the Galing Pook Magazine. It first examined the existing body of literature and then implemented a content analysis of Galing Pook documents. The main research question is – What are the characteristics of local governance innovations in the Philippines? Focusing on the best practices, what insights can be obtained to inform the formulation of local development initiatives? Despite its being exploratory, this study is able to document the characteristics and nuances of local governance innovations in the Philippines. The prevailing local innovations are dominated by the implementation of new services or products. This is because most of the initiatives contain some new services or new ways for delivering the services regardless if these are minor or major components. There is also an overwhelming proportion of ‘governance’ innovations due to the common practice of community mobilization and organization in these initiatives. It is important to note that the GP Awards put a premium on the citizen engagement aspect in the selection process. There is less instances of process innovations though this can be attributed to lack of discussion about it in the reports.

Keywords: local governance, innovations

JEL Classification: H70

Suggested Citation:

Tabuga, Aubrey, Characterizing Local Governance Innovations in the Philippines: Insights From a Content Analysis of Galing Pook Documents (August 31, 2023). AIM RSN PCC Discussion Paper 2022-004, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4557399 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4557399
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
100 References
A S Bali , M Howlett , J M Lewis , M Ramesh
Procedural policy tools in theory and practice
Policy and Society , volume 40 , p. 3 - 295 Posted: 2021
S P Borgatti , M G Everett , L C Freeman
Ucinet 6 for Windows: Software for Social Network Analysis Posted: 2002
S P Borgatti
Netdraw Network Visualization. Analytic Technologies Posted: 2002
Galing Pook Awardees. ARISE -Philippines
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
604
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,253
RANK
102,553
100 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Institutions: Federalism & Sub-National Politics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies