Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Quality of Specific Nonprofit Entities Voluntary Sustainability Reports: The Italian Cooperative Credit Banks

20 Pages Posted: 1 Sep 2023

Olga Ferraro

University of Calabria

Elena Cristiano

University of Calabria

Stefania Veltri

Università degli Studi della Calabria

Abstract

This paper focuses on the sustainability information voluntarily disclosed by Italian mutual banks or credit cooperative banks (CCBs) over the period 2015-2019. Our paper aims to contribute to the increasing debate on sustainability in banking sectors  by investigating the quality of disclosure by Italian mutual banks, a peculiar non-profit category of banks which combine the value maximization for their stakeholders with the development of the local economy. We selected the Italian co-operative credit sector as it is one of the largest markets in Europe. We analyzed the quality of voluntary sustainability disclosure, in the light of the legitimacy theory, building a framework which investigates the compliance of social reports of Italian CCBs to the European, national and mutual guidelines. Our results provide evidence that there is room for improvement in sustainability disclosure by Italian CCBs and that the quality of social disclosure is not the same for the different categories. The paper is original because it is one of the few studies measuring the quality of sustainability disclosure of a specific category of banks, the CCBs, which claim to have a more positive attitude towards sustainability, but for which there are mixed empirical studies.

Keywords: non-profit mutual banks, credit cooperative banks (CCBs), Italy, CSR disclosure, quality, sustainability reports, interpretative content analysis, sustainability guidelines

Suggested Citation:

Ferraro, Olga and Cristiano, Elena and Veltri, Stefania, The Quality of Specific Nonprofit Entities Voluntary Sustainability Reports: The Italian Cooperative Credit Banks. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4559199 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4559199
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
55
ABSTRACT VIEWS
524
RANK
880,636
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies