Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Public Pension Duration Risk, Interest Rate Swap Usage, and Transparency

56 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2023 Last revised: 27 Nov 2023

Allen Carrion

University of Memphis - Fogelman College of Business and Economics

John Coughlan

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

Date Written: September 3, 2023

Abstract

We study the usage of interest rate swaps (IRS) by U.S. public defined-benefit pension plans, their role in interest rate risk management, and transparency to the public. We first describe the duration risk of these pensions, show that it is large, and review how it is commonly believed to be hedged with IRS. Using CFTC regulatory data, we document that the pensions collectively hold positions in IRS. However, these positions are held by a minority of funds, are small relative to their duration hedging needs, and are often in the wrong direction to serve as hedges. Swaptions and interest rate futures are not generally used as substitute hedges. We also analyze the public disclosures of pensions identified as IRS users in the data. We find that most are not sufficiently transparent to conduct interest rate risk analysis using public data, and some do not clearly disclose the existence of IRS in their portfolios.

Keywords: public pensions, interest rate swaps, derivatives, risk management, interest rate risk, hedging, duration

JEL Classification: G11, G18, G23, G32, H55, H70, J26, M49

Suggested Citation:

Carrion, Allen and Coughlan, John, Public Pension Duration Risk, Interest Rate Swap Usage, and Transparency (September 3, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4560241 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4560241
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
33 References
J Adams , D J Smith
Mind the gap: using derivatives overlays to hedge pension duration
Financial Analysts Journal , volume 65 , issue 4 , p. 60 - 67 Posted: 2009
J Adams , D J Smith
Fixed income analysis, 4 th edn. CFA Institute investment series Posted: 2019
A Andonov , R M Bauer , K M Cremers
Pension fund asset allocation and liability discount rates
The Review of Financial Studies , volume 30 , issue 8 , p. 2555 - 2595 Posted: 2017
L Baker , R Haynes , J Roberts , R Sharma , B Tuckman
Risk transfer with interest rate swaps
Financial Markets, Institutions & Instruments , volume 30 , issue 1 , p. 3 - 28 Posted: 2021
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
175
ABSTRACT VIEWS
977
RANK
392,891
33 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Risk Management eJournal

Follow

Derivatives eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies