Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Building resilience: Alignment of nonprofit leaders’ understanding of environmental challenges

Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 7 Sep 2023

Emma Willems

Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) - Applied Economics Department

Date Written: September 7, 2023

Abstract

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

The ways in which a common understanding of environmental challenges is established among nonprofit leaders is not clearly presented in the literature, despite the importance of such understanding as an antecedent of organizational resilience. In response to this research gap, this paper seeks to identify how such an alignment is facilitated. We use a qualitative research approach and investigate seven international nonprofit organizations whose leadership is aligned on environmental challenges. The data collection is twofold. First, leaders of these organizations, being the board chair, one board member, and the managerial executive, respond to closed and open-ended survey questions. Second, we analyze organizational documents of the participating nonprofits. This includes for example their bylaws, codes of conduct, and strategic plans. Our results indicate that transparency, clarity, flexibility, and quality relationships among the leadership are key interaction characteristics associated with leadership alignment. Good board chair leadership and board gender balance are crucial personal characteristics. The present paper provides insights to academics as well as practitioners who aim to enhance cohesion of their leadership’s understanding of environmental challenges.

Keywords: resilience, governance, board of directors, managerial executive, environmental challenges

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Willems, Emma, Building resilience: Alignment of nonprofit leaders’ understanding of environmental challenges (September 7, 2023). Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4564740
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
198
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Management eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies