Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charitable Objectives or Donor Benefits? What Sponsor Language Reveals about Donor-Advised Fund Priorities and Resource Flows

Forthcoming, Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly

Fisher College of Business Working Paper

46 Pages Posted: 14 Sep 2023 Last revised: 15 Apr 2025

Helen Flannery

Institute for Policy Studies

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: March 19, 2025

Abstract

Recent years have seen a dramatic rise in donor-advised funds (DAFs). Though housed in public charities, DAFs are often characterized as de facto private foundations due to the deference sponsors typically give to donors’ wishes. The consequence has been frequent calls to institute DAF grant disbursement requirements and other restrictions akin to those on foundations. Despite their growing importance, we know little about what distinguishes different DAF sponsoring organizations beyond a commonly used three-type split between community foundations, national sponsors, and single-issue sponsors. To better understand variation in behavior across DAF sponsoring organizations – which may, in turn, be driven by the donors they attract – we develop a proxy measure of the priorities they display in the language they use on their websites. The measure seeks to identify the extent to which a sponsor emphasizes achieving charitable objectives versus providing extrinsic benefits to donors. In addition to presenting a new method of classifying DAF sponsors, we also show how this measure complements existing sponsor type classifications, with national sponsors emphasizing donor benefits more on average but also exhibiting the most meaningful within-type variation in their emphasis. Most notably, among national sponsors, greater emphasis on donor benefits is highly predictive of greater DAF assets, and this feature is largely attributable not to greater contribution receipts but rather to lower payout rates. Our results suggest that variation in the language used by DAF sponsors can help inform which organizations would be affected by regulatory proposals targeting DAFs, and what effects such proposals would have on charitable activity.

Keywords: charitable giving, charity, community foundations, donor-advised funds, private foundations, philanthropy, public charities

JEL Classification: K34, L30, L31, L38

Suggested Citation:

Flannery, Helen and Mittendorf, Brian, Charitable Objectives or Donor Benefits? What Sponsor Language Reveals about Donor-Advised Fund Priorities and Resource Flows (March 19, 2025). Forthcoming, Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, Fisher College of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4565216 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4565216
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
29 References
J Andreoni
The benefits and costs of donor advised funds
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2018
J Andreoni , R Madoff
Calculating DAF payout and what we learn when we do it correctly Posted: 2023
L Berman
Donor advised funds in historical perspective
Boston College Law Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good , volume 1 , p. 5 - 27 Posted: 2015
S Brunson
I'd gladly pay you Tuesday for a [tax deduction] today:" donor-advised fund and the deferral of charity
Donor advised funds: an overview , volume 55 , p. 245 - 286 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
314
ABSTRACT VIEWS
2,601
RANK
220,473
29 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Tax Law & Policy eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies