Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Blowing in the Wind: Revenue Windfalls and Local Responses from Wind Farm Development

48 Pages Posted: 28 Dec 2023

Claudia Serra-Sala

Barcelona School of Economics; University of Barcelona - Barcelona Institute of Economics (IEB)

Date Written: July 1, 2023

Abstract

The development of wind energy infrastructure encompasses global benefits and can offer opportunities for rural areas. Yet, its development can also generate local negative externalities, and its benefits to host communities are not automatic. This study investigates whether the development of wind farms causes revenue windfalls as the base of existing tax instruments increases and hence benefits financially receiving municipalities. To do so, I use Spanish municipality-level budget data from 1994 to 2020 and exploit the timing of wind project development. Results based on a two-way fixed effect difference-in-difference and event study models show that the development of a wind farm results in an average 30 percent increase in municipal revenue per capita. These additional funds are primarily allocated toward financing real investments and current expenditures. I show that these revenue windfalls, partially driven by an increase in the tax base, are complemented by local tax responses. Municipalities react to the development of a wind farm by increasing tax rates associated with this type of non-mobile capital investment close to maximum levels, while decreasing the fiscal pressure associated with other property tax categories.

Keywords: Energy Transition, Local Public Finance, Wind Power

JEL Classification: H23, R10, Q50

Suggested Citation:

Serra, Claudia, Blowing in the Wind: Revenue Windfalls and Local Responses from Wind Farm Development (July 1, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4638584 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4638584
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
Grant Allan , David Comerford , Kevin Connolly , Peter Mcgregor , Andrew G Ross
The economic and environmental impacts of UK offshore wind development: The importance of local content
Energy , volume 199 Posted: 2020
Alexander W Bartik , Janet Currie , Michael Greenstone , Christopher R Knittel
The local economic and welfare consequences of hydraulic fracturing
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics , volume 11 , issue 4 , p. 105 - 155 Posted: 2019
Kirill Borusyak , Xavier Jaravel , Jann Spiess
Revisiting event study designs: Robust and efficient estimation Posted: 2021
Jason P Brown
Production of natural gas from shale in local economies: a resource blessing or curse
Economic Review , volume 99 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 147 Posted: 2014
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
151
ABSTRACT VIEWS
577
RANK
446,506
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Environmental Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies