Skip to main content
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article. A final peer reviewed article has now been published. Click here to view.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Spending on the Performance of Water Supply and Sanitation Authorities in Tanzania
Social Sciences & Humanities Open

15 Pages Posted: 9 Dec 2023 Publication Status: Published

Rosemary Mwandu

Mzumbe University

Ernest Kihanga

Mzumbe University

Gabriel Komba

Mzumbe University, School of Business

Abstract

This paper assesses the impact of corporate social responsibility spending on the performance of water supply and sanitation authorities in Tanzania, using revenue collection efficiency and non-revenue water as proxies of performance. The study employed a retrospective longitudinal research design with a quantitative research approach, using secondary data from 114 water supply and sanitation authorities over five years from 2015 to 2019. We applied both the random and fixed effect estimation techniques to assess the impact of corporate social responsibility spending on performance. The findings reveal that corporate social responsibility spending significantly influences the performance of water supply and sanitation authorities. In particular, corporate social responsibility spending increases revenue collection efficiency and decreases non-revenue water. Also, we found that control variables organization size, organization age, number of employees and customers’ complaints significantly influence performance. The paper provides an in-depth and contextual understanding of how spending on corporate social responsibility activities for not-for-profit organizations in the public sector such as water supply and sanitation authorities enhances revenue collection efficiency and reduces non-revenue water. The practical implications of this study lies on the importance of corporate social responsibility investment by organizations in the water sector and advocate for policies that encourage corporate social responsibility activities to enhance their performance.

Keywords: Corporate social responsibility spending, performance, water sector, public sector

Suggested Citation:

Mwandu, Rosemary and Kihanga, Ernest and Komba, Gabriel, Assessing the Impact of Corporate Social Responsibility Spending on the Performance of Water Supply and Sanitation Authorities in Tanzania. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4646495 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4646495
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
and organizational citizenship behavior in the public sector
International Journal of Public Administration
G Adinata
CSR expenditures, financial distress prediction, and firm reputation: A pathway analysis
Perspektif Akuntansi , volume 2 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 18 Posted: 2019
D A O Aunga , M Nathan
The impact of corporate social responsibility on corporate financial perfomance in Tanganyika wilderness camps limited in Arusha region
Tanzania. The Internationa Journal of Social Science and Humanities Invation , volume 5 , issue 1 , p. 4293 - 4306 Posted: 2018
M Benlemlih , M Bitar
Corporate Social Responsibility and Investment Efficiency
Journal of Business Ethics , volume 148 , issue 3 , p. 647 - 671 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
86
ABSTRACT VIEWS
603
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Social Sciences & Humanities Open First Look
All Journals (1898)
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Social Responsibility & Social Impact eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies