Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Tax Planning by Tax-Exempt Organizations: Evidence from Nonprofit Reactions to Section 4960

33 Pages Posted: 8 Dec 2023 Last revised: 30 May 2024

Wim Maas

Tilburg University - Department of Accounting

Date Written: December 4, 2023

Abstract

Do nonprofit organizations engage in tax planning? Leveraging the introduction of IRC Section 4960, an excise tax on remuneration over one million dollars introduced in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, I investigate nonprofit tax avoidance practices. I posit that nonprofits use tax planning to pre-
serve mission funds while retaining executive talent. Using a difference-in-difference design, I find that in affected nonprofits, compensation growth slows, and the likelihood and value of other types of arrangements increases. Specifically, affected nonprofits are more likely to enter into or expand loan agreements with officers and provide more perks, creatively redesigning pay. Affected organizations are also more likely to delegate management services. The unintended consequences of taxing compensation may include less transparent and less comparable executive compensation in the nonprofit sector.

Keywords: nonprofit organizations, tax, executive compensation, TCJA

JEL Classification: M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Maas, Wim, Tax Planning by Tax-Exempt Organizations: Evidence from Nonprofit Reactions to Section 4960 (December 4, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4652553 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4652553
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
A Adams
Managing the 'excess compensation' tax
Journal of Accountancy , issue 3 Posted: 2021
C R Austin , R J Wilson
An examination of reputational costs and tax avoidance: Evidence from firms with valuable consumer brands
The Journal of the American Taxation Association , volume 39 , issue 1 , p. 67 - 93 Posted: 2017
S Balsam , C M Hall , E Harris , K Smith
Taxing the way to lower pay: The impact of section 4960 excise tax on nonprofit compensation Posted: 2023
S Balsam , E E Harris
Nonprofit executive incentive pay
Review of Accounting Studies , volume 23 , issue 4 , p. 1665 - 1714 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
73
ABSTRACT VIEWS
514
RANK
753,521
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies