Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
EVALUATING THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON EFFECTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT A SOUTH AFRICAN STATE-OWNED BROADCASTER

22 Pages Posted: 20 Dec 2023

Augustine Nethononda

University of South Africa (UNISA)

Leonard Chakauya

Afremac Management Consultancy

Date Written: October 31, 2023

Abstract

The roles of corporate boards are often difficult to observe by the public daily, but boards abruptly become the
centre of attention when corporate problems or scandals arise. This study was aimed at examining how the
board of directors carry out their fiduciary, monitoring, advisory and strategic roles to achieve effective corporate governance at a state broadcaster. The research method used was an archival method and secondary data
analysis to review the Board roles using publicly available reports. It was found that the state broadcaster
board is using a unitary system to monitor and provide effective oversight and corporate governance as led by
most non-executive directors to ensure independence, functional and demographical diversity with no single
individual domination. The state broadcaster board uses well-attended, sized, and independent-driven nine
functional committees regularly that fulfil regulation requirements to effectively monitor the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) and the management team to fulfil their fiduciary role, accountability and responsibility to the
shareholder. The board provides an inherent strategic and advisory service to the organisation that serves the
CEO and management with expertise through active involvement in strategic decision-making, formulation and
implementation of strategy whilst seeking external professional advisors where it lacks specific expertise to
effectively carry out their advisory role. The research recommends a dual advisory approach with a standalone advisory committee, streamlining or removal of director appointment regulations, balancing the number
of executive and non-executive directors, and reducing member overload.

Keywords: Effective corporate governance, roles of boards, state broadcaster

JEL Classification: H83

Suggested Citation:

Nethononda, Augustine and Chakauya, Leonard, EVALUATING THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON EFFECTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT A SOUTH AFRICAN STATE-OWNED BROADCASTER (October 31, 2023). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4658287 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4658287
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
61 References
R Kloviene , E Gimzauskiene , D Misiunas
The Significance of SOEs Performance Measurement as Policy Instrument in Baltic Countries , volume 24 , p. 1 - 14 Posted: 2015
S Claessens , B B Yurtoglu
Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets: A Survey
Emerging Market Review , volume 15 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 33 Posted: 2013
C A Adams
Conceptualising the contemporary corporate value creation process
Accounting Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 4 , p. 906 - 931 Posted: 2016
P Wilkinson
Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
50
ABSTRACT VIEWS
368
61 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies