Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Identifying Tax-Setting Responses From Local Fiscal Policy Programs

Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-23

64 Pages Posted: 21 Dec 2023 Last revised: 8 Mar 2024

Georg Thunecke

Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance

Andreas Schanbacher

University of Tübingen

Valeria Merlo

University of Tübingen

Georg Wamser

University of Tübingen

There are 2 versions of this paper

Date Written: December 21, 2023

Abstract

This paper studies tax policy interaction among local governments for both mobile and immobile tax bases. We exploit exogenous changes in the local tax setting of German municipalities due to participation in state debt reduction programs to learn about the size, scope and nature of strategic interaction among local governments. Our results suggest strong and significant tax policy responses both in corporate as well as in property tax rates. Based on these results, the tax response function gradients are in the range of 0.30 to 0.69, depending on the tax instrument and state. Spatial, political, demographic, and administrative municipality characteristics all influence the size of the tax response.

Keywords: Local Public Finance, Tax Competition, Yardstick Competition, Spatial Interaction, Tax Response Functions

JEL Classification: C21, H71, H73, R59

Suggested Citation:

Thunecke, Georg and Schanbacher, Andreas and Merlo, Valeria and Wamser, Georg, Identifying Tax-Setting Responses From Local Fiscal Policy Programs (December 21, 2023). Working Paper of the Max Planck Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance No. 2023-23, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4671843 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4671843
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
822
RANK
384,900
1 Citations
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Macroeconomics: Monetary & Fiscal Policies eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies