Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Is public debt environmentally friendly? The role of EU fiscal rules on environmental quality: An empirical assessment

FEEM Working Paper No. 26

30 Pages Posted: 3 Jan 2024

Giovanni Carnazza

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Thomas I. Renstrom

Durham Business School - Department of Economics

Luca Spataro

University of Pisa - Department of Economics and Management

Date Written: December 24, 2023

Abstract

The EU has embarked on multiple initiatives reflecting its commitment to environmental enhancement and sustainable transitions. Notable among these are the European Green Deal and the NextGenerationEU recovery plan, both pivotal in fostering eco-friendly policies and sustainable practices within the region. Conversely, the fiscal rules within the EU, designed to manage budgetary deficits and debt-to-GDP ratios, may pose challenges to the implementation of fiscal measures targeted at achieving environmental quality objectives. These regulatory constraints potentially curtail the fiscal space available for policies aligned with the environmental goals set forth by the EU. To address this issue, using a panel of 27 European member countries observed annually from 1995 to 2021, we investigate the impact of two different indicators on the overall carbon intensity: on the one hand, the implicit tax rate on energy reduces environmental pollution; on the other hand, an increase in the stringency of the European fiscal framework and/or the debt-to-GDP ratio increase carbon intensity. From a policy point of view, our outcomes stress the importance of shaping national and European regulations to foster more sustainable environmental development.

Keywords: Fiscal Rules, European Union, Energy taxes, CO2 emissions, Government debt

JEL Classification: H23, H63, H87, Q53, Q58

Suggested Citation:

Carnazza, Giovanni and Renstrom, Thomas I. and Spataro, Luca, Is public debt environmentally friendly? The role of EU fiscal rules on environmental quality: An empirical assessment (December 24, 2023). FEEM Working Paper No. 26, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4682863 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4682863
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
48 References
Greenhouse gas (GHG) (Bt CO2-eq) Carbon dioxide Posted: 1997
% share of CO2 on GHG (right-hand scale)
Manescu
3 Fiscal Rules Index Among the EU countries, fiscal rules have gained in importance. The number of rules has tripled since the adoption of the stability and growth pact in 1997, and doubled in the last 15 years Posted: 1999
(b) Final Energy Consumption (denominator) -million toe 90% 100% 1995
Maximum FRI_Debt Minimum FRI_Debt Average FRI_Debt 0% 10% 20% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100 Posted: 1995
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
65
ABSTRACT VIEWS
444
RANK
805,600
48 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

FEEM Working Paper Series

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies