Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Reshaping Charity Channels: How Assets Flow into and out of Donor-Advised Funds

Fisher College of Business Working Paper

33 Pages Posted: 18 Jan 2024 Last revised: 25 Apr 2024

Helen Flannery

Institute for Policy Studies

Brian Mittendorf

Ohio State University (OSU) - Fisher College of Business

Date Written: April 2024

Abstract

Donor-advised funds, or DAFs, are a rapidly growing segment of the nonprofit sector in the United States. DAFs are segregated financial accounts held in charitable organizations (called DAF sponsors) that serve as intermediaries in the flow of financial resources from donors to operating charities. This chapter assesses the position of DAFs as links in the US charity supply chain and empirically tests how their resource flows differ from traditional means of giving. We first define DAFs and DAF sponsors and describe the reasons for their rapid growth. Using public tax return data from 2020 to 2022, we then examine if and how the types of assets flowing into DAFs differ from those flowing into other public charities. We show that DAFs facilitate noncash giving, particularly noncash gifts with added tax incentives. We then examine how the allocation of grants from donor-advised funds to various charitable recipient sectors differs from other means of giving. We show that not only do DAFs often cycle funds between DAF sponsors, but also that DAFs disproportionately facilitate giving to educational and religious organizations at the expense of human service and health care organizations. The chapter concludes by discussing implications for these findings, including how DAFs may be quietly altering the charitable landscape in the United States.

Keywords: charitable giving, charity, donor-advised funds, financial intermediaries, philanthropy

JEL Classification: K34, L30, L31, L38

Suggested Citation:

Flannery, Helen and Mittendorf, Brian, Reshaping Charity Channels: How Assets Flow into and out of Donor-Advised Funds (April 2024). Fisher College of Business Working Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4683236 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4683236
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
24 References
J Andreoni
The benefits and costs of donor advised funds
Tax Policy and the Economy , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 44 Posted: 2018
J Andreoni , R Madoff
Calculating DAF payout and what we learn when we do it correctly Posted: 2023
Paul Arnsberger
Donor-advised funds: An overview using IRS data
Boston College Law School Forum on Philanthropy and the Public Good Posted: 2015
A Arya , B Mittendorf
Donor reliance on accounting and its consequences for the charitable distribution channel
Production and Operations Management , volume 25 , issue 8 , p. 1319 - 1331 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
252
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,791
RANK
277,353
1 Citations
24 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Ohio State University, Fisher College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies