Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Assessing Tax Expenditures: A Composite Measure for Sustainability, Fairness and Territorial Equity in Italy

25 Pages Posted: 17 Jan 2024

Mauro Marè

Luiss Guido Carli University - Luiss Business School

Francesco Porcelli

Università degli Studi di Bari “Aldo Moro” (UNIBA) - Faculty of Law

Francesco Vidoli

University of Urbino

Date Written: January 5, 2024

Abstract

Over the last 30 years, the number of studies on tax expenditures has gradually increased in most OECD countries: given their importance for tax systems, most countries have decided to estimate revenue issues on a regular basis. Most of these studies have looked at issues such as the loss of tax revenue due to tax expenditures and their distributional effects across income groups. No specific studies have been carried out on the rationale to attribute a composite criterion of fiscal sustainability and inter-territorial equity, in order to monitor over the years the performance of each item in relation to the public budget. In this paper a first empirical attempt is proposed in the Italian context. For each tax detraction, a composite indicator is calculated for the dimensions of progressivity, relevance and territorial equity, in order to highlight an objective criterion useful for rationalising tax expenditure. Our analysis shows that there is room for rationalisation in the number and size of tax expenditures facing a clear correlation between the geographical distribution of some tax expenditures.

Keywords: Tax expenditures, Composite indicator, Financial sustainability, Tax system evaluation

JEL Classification: H24, C43, C21

Suggested Citation:

Marè, Mauro and Porcelli, Francesco and Vidoli, Francesco, Assessing Tax Expenditures: A Composite Measure for Sustainability, Fairness and Territorial Equity in Italy (January 5, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4684989 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4684989
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
44 References
F Aliu , A Redonda , C Von Haldenwang
The Global Tax Expenditures Database Posted: 2022
R Altshuler , R D Dietz
Tax expenditure estimation and reporting: A critical review Posted: 2008
G P Barbetta , S Pellegrino , G Turati
What explains the redistribution achieved by the italian personal income tax? evidence from administrative data
Public Finance Review , volume 46 , p. 7 - 28 Posted: 2018
J L Buckley
Tax expenditure reform: Some common misconceptions
, volume 18 Posted: 2011
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
87
ABSTRACT VIEWS
427
RANK
677,550
44 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

European Economics: Political Economy & Public Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies