Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Side Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017: Evidence from the Hospital Industry

55 Pages Posted: 18 Feb 2024

Samantha Liew

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Frank Murphy

University of Connecticut - Department of Accounting

Date Written: February 3, 2024

Abstract

We examine how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) altered the hospital industry. Nonprofit hospitals make up approximately 80 percent of all hospitals and generally have an advantage over their for-profit counterparts due to their tax-exempt status. Provisions in the TCJA exogenously increase the relative cash flow in for-profit hospitals compared to nonprofit hospitals. We hypothesize and find that this comparative change in tax-driven cash flows results in greater investment, primarily in capital assets, among for-profit hospitals relative to nonprofit hospitals. We then test for changes in the quality of care around the TCJA and present evidence of a reduction in relative readmissions among for-profit hospitals, indicating an increase in for-profit quality of care. Lastly, using financial data from California hospitals, we find that the TCJA reduced implicit taxes among for-profit hospitals. Our results contribute to the tax literature by providing initial evidence of how a shift in tax policy altered the dynamics of the hospital industry.

Keywords: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), capital investment, hospitals, tax policy

JEL Classification: I10, G38, H23, H25

Suggested Citation:

Liew, Samantha and Murphy, Frank, Side Effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017: Evidence from the Hospital Industry (February 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4715196 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4715196
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
201
ABSTRACT VIEWS
873
RANK
347,387
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies