Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
New Public Management and Governance Sustainability in Nigeria

RUN/SPGSU/24/01

15 Pages Posted: 20 Mar 2024

John Ugoani

Rhema Univeristy, Nigeria.

Date Written: February 21, 2024

Abstract

New public management approach aims largely to enhance meritocratic public service, sound public financial management, efficient service delivery, spirit of participation, ethics and the promotion of anticorruption activities in public life. It also attempts to make governance more competitive and providing the opportunity of managing the government business like a successful business empire. Thus, corporatization of government business over the influence of corporate governance principles is an approach towards achieving greater efficiency, cost-savings and service quality improvement accompanied by the setting of performance targets. Sustainability as a transdisciplinary phenomenon is framed within a structure that is holistic and comprehensive to embrace the six key drivers and the five categorical dimensions of sustainable development. Thus, Governance sustainability has emerged along with social corporate responsibility and corporate governance as major push factors for sustainable development. Governance sustainability or sustainability governance is a management discipline embracing corporate governance principles, operational strategies and capability competencies, behaviours and cultures. It focuses on productivity, services delivery, and seeks to optimally balance corporate performance or outcomes across environmental, economic, social, cultural and governance criteria at all times. This approach suggests that for the practices of governance to be sustainable they must focus on the adaption of all the principles of sustainability. The exploratory investigation literature review research design was adopted for the study and the result showed significant positive correlation between New Public Management and Governance Sustainability. This study was not exhaustive as the result of lack of current relevant literature and research funding. Further study should examine the relationship between cultural failures and business failures in Nigeria. To promote governance sustainability this study recommends that both government and business organizations should always reflect all stakeholders’ interests in decision-making.

Keywords: Corporate governance, Transdisciplinarity, Anti-corruption, Corporatization, Public enterprises, Cost-savings, Greater efficiency, Zero ethical standards, Cultural failures, Structural realignment-orientation, Transformational activities.

JEL Classification: M10, M12

Suggested Citation:

Ugoani, John, New Public Management and Governance Sustainability in Nigeria (February 21, 2024). RUN/SPGSU/24/01, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4733984 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4733984
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
70 References
R Andrews , S Vandewalle
New Public Management and Citizens Perceptions of Local Service Efficiency, Responsiveness, Equity and Effectiveness
Public Management Review , volume 15 , issue 5 , p. 762 - 783 Posted: 2013
R V Aguilera , G Jackson
The Cross-national Diversity of Corporate Governance: Dimensions and Determinants
The Academy of Management Review , volume 28 , issue 3 , p. 447 - 465 Posted: 2003
N Akinnaso
The President, Performance bond, and service delivery
The Nation , volume 13 , issue 6310 Posted: 2023
M A S Al-Faryan
Corporate Governance in Saudi Arabia: An Overview of Its Evolution and Recent Trends
Risk Governance & Control. Financial Markets & Institutions , volume 10 , issue 1 , p. 23 - 36 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
108
ABSTRACT VIEWS
774
RANK
584,078
70 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies