Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
On the Intermediation Cost of Public Debt

73 Pages Posted: 1 Mar 2024 Last revised: 1 Dec 2024

Sandro C. Andrade

University of Miami - Department of Finance

Felipe M. Da Rocha

University of Miami - Department of Finance

Date Written: November 22, 2024

Abstract

We analyze more than 6,000 auctions of Brazilian government bonds to investigate the intermediation cost of public debt. We find that the average cost is 14 basis points per auction, with large variations. The cost increases with bond duration, auction supply, and term premia, consistent with a dealers' inventory risk mechanism. The cost decreases with dealers' auction participation, indicating that limited competition also plays a role. High-frequency interest-rate futures data show that auctions causally affect fixed-income markets. A trading strategy exploiting auction-related predictable price variation in interest-rate futures earns an annual Sharpe Ratio of 2.04, suggesting that slow-moving capital prevents the costless hedging of inventory risk and thereby contributes to the intermediation cost of public debt.

Keywords: Treasury auctions, inventory risk, slow-moving capital,oligoply.

JEL Classification: G12, G13, H63

Suggested Citation:

Andrade, Sandro C. and M. Da Rocha, Felipe, On the Intermediation Cost of Public Debt (November 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4736769
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
37 References
R A Albuquerque , J.-M Cardoso-Costa , J A Faias
Price elasticity of demand and risk-bearing capacity in sovereign bond auctions
Review of Financial Studies , volume 37 , p. 3149 - 3187 Posted: 2024
S Amin , R Tédongap
The changing landscape of Treasury auctions
Journal of Banking and Finance , volume 148 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 19 Posted: 2023
R Beetsma , M Giuliodori , F De Jong , D Widijanto
Price effects of sovereign debt auctions in the Euro-zone: The role of the crisis
Journal of Financial Intermediation , volume 25 , issue 2 , p. 30 - 53 Posted: 2016
S Bigio , G Nuno , J Passadore
Debt-maturity management with liquidity costs
Journal of Political Economy Macroeconomics , volume 1 , issue 1 , p. 119 - 190 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
110
ABSTRACT VIEWS
719
RANK
576,053
37 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Emerging Markets: Finance eJournal

Follow

Public Choice: Public Goods eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies