Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Governance and Efficiency in Chinese Foundations

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 26 Feb 2024

Zheyu (Zoey) Lu

Queensland University of Technology

Yuyu Zhang

Queensland University of Technology - School of Accountancy

Alexandra Williamson

Independent

Date Written: February 26, 2024

Abstract

This study examines the impact of governance on the efficiency of nonprofit organizations, and the relationship between different governance mechanisms. Using a dataset of 3,496 Chinese foundations from 2011 to 2015, we find that internal governance, external donor governance, and external governance environment are significantly and positively associated with foundations’ efficiency. Importantly, substitutional relationships exist among these governance mechanisms. Financial reporting quality is a major channel through which governance influences efficiency. Furthermore, the positive association between governance and efficiency is more pronounced for small foundations than for large ones and for non-education-focused foundations than for education-focused ones. This study offers practical guidance for foundations to improve their efficiency by enhancing both internal and external governance, and will be of interest to foundation leaders, donors, and policymakers.

Keywords: Foundation, Nonprofit Organization, Governance, Efficiency, Financial Reporting Quality

JEL Classification: M41, G34

Suggested Citation:

Lu, Zheyu (Zoey) and Zhang, Yuyu and Williamson, Alexandra, Governance and Efficiency in Chinese Foundations (February 26, 2024). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4738647
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
199
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies