Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Close Enough! Exploring the Consequences of Budget Sophistication in Government Contracting

58 Pages Posted: 29 Feb 2024

Matthew Boland

Saint Mary's University

Lynnette Purda

affiliation not provided to SSRN

Abstract

We use an extensive database of US government procurement contracts to provide insights into firms’ forecasting and budgeting practices. Contract-level data has the distinct advantage of allowing us to speak to budgeting outcomes attributable to specific projects. Although internal budgeting processes are generally unobservable, we document that accepted contract bids ending in a series of zeros are a signal of the underlying attributes of the budgeting process used to formulate the bid. Bids prepared using precise data and sophisticated budgeting methods should rarely end in zeros unlike bids relying on intuition or discretion. We find that ending-zero contracts perform poorly, require more extensive revision and are unlikely to have embedded options exercised and that contract-level, as opposed to firm-level, variation drives these results. Government allocation of resources could therefore improve with more complete information provided in contract solicitations.

Keywords: Budgeting, Capital Budgeting, Procurement, Heaping, Incomplete Contracts

Suggested Citation:

Boland, Matthew and Purda, Lynnette, Close Enough! Exploring the Consequences of Budget Sophistication in Government Contracting. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4743666 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4743666
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
58 References
S Albrecht , C C Carbon
The fluency amplification model: Fluent stimuli show more intense but not evidently more positive evaluations
Acta psychologica , volume 148 , p. 195 - 203 Posted: 2014
E J Allen , P M Dechow , D G Pope , G Wu
Reference-dependent preferences: Evidence from marathon runners
Management Science , volume 63 , issue 6 , p. 1657 - 1672 Posted: 2014
R Ball , R M Bushman , F P Vasvari
The debt-contracting value of accounting information and loan syndicate structure
Journal of Accounting Research , volume 46 , p. 247 - 287 Posted: 2008
A Beatty , K Rameish , ; , J Weber
The importance of accounting changes in debt contracts: The cost of flexibility in covenant calculations
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 33 , p. 205 - 227 Posted: 2002
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
32
ABSTRACT VIEWS
283
58 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Comparative Political Economy: Fiscal Policy eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies