Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The role of digital technologies in public sector co-production and co-creation: a structured literature review

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 20 Mar 2024

Rubens Pauluzzo

Università degli Studi di Udine - Department of Economics; Dipartimento di Scienze Economiche e Statistiche, Università di Udine

Date Written: March 19, 2024

Abstract

Digital technologies are changing the ways service users can co-create value, thus rearranging relations between citizens and governments. However, research from a governance perspective is still in its infancy. Investigating 128 records, published until 2022, this article reviews and critiques the literature on digitalization and co-production/co-creation in public administration, offers an overview of the state of research, and outlines a future research agenda. The findings reveal four areas of concern that require more attention by researchers: the generation of public value; the analysis of the entire public service cycle; comparative studies; the mitigation of the risks arising from the implementation of digital technologies.

Keywords: Digital technologies, co-production, co-creation, public sector, structured literature review

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Pauluzzo, Rubens, The role of digital technologies in public sector co-production and co-creation: a structured literature review (March 19, 2024). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4765109
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
285
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies