Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Effect of Social Media Sentiment on Donations Received by NPOS

Social Network Analysis and Mining, (2024) 14:69

16 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Juan L. Gandía

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

David Huguet

University of Valencia - Department of Accounting

Date Written: March 25, 2024

Abstract

Previous literature has analyzed the effect of internet disclosure on NPO donations, specifically, through website disclosure, showing a positive relation between internet disclosure and NPO income. Nonetheless, there is a lack of studies examining the association between sentiment on social media and NPO donations. Therefore, the aim of this study is to examine the effect that sentiment in Twitter messages has on the donations received by NPOs. Using a sample of NPOs listed on the Non-Profit Times 100, we examine whether the sentiment transmitted by the NPOs through Twitter affects their donations. The results show that the sentiment associated with certain specific categories of messages (community messages and information messages about matters not directly related to the NPO) has a significant effect on the amount of donations received.

Keywords: NPO, Sentiment analysis, Social media, Economic model of giving, Donation

JEL Classification: M40

Suggested Citation:

Gandía, Juan L. and Huguet, David, Effect of Social Media Sentiment on Donations Received by NPOS (March 25, 2024). Social Network Analysis and Mining, (2024) 14:69, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4772068
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
43 References
P Andrés-Alonso , N Martín , M E Romero-Merino
The governance of nonprofit organizations: empirical evidence from nongovernmental development organizations in Spain
Nonprofit Volunt Sect Q , volume 35 , issue 4 , p. 588 - 604 Posted: 2006
T H Baek , S Yoon , S Kim , Y Kim
Social exclusion influences on the effectiveness of altruistic versus egoistic appeals in charitable advertising
Mark Lett , volume 30 , p. 75 - 90 Posted: 2019
D A Campbell , K T Lambright
Are you out there? Internet presence of nonprofit human service organizations
Nonprofit Volunt Sect Q , volume 48 , issue 6 , p. 1296 - 1311 Posted: 2019
D A Campbell , K T Lambright
Terms of engagement: Facebook and Twitter use among non-profit human service organizations
Nonprofit Manag Leadersh , volume 30 , p. 545 - 568 Posted: 2020
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
43
ABSTRACT VIEWS
353
43 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Economics eJournal

Follow

Corporate Governance: Disclosure, Internal Control & Risk-Management eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies