Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
A Study of the Internal Audit Function of the University of Sierra Leone

33 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Dr. Abu Kai Kamara

University of Sierra Leone - Fourah Bay College

Date Written: March 31, 2024

Abstract

The study examined the University of Sierra Leone’s (USL) Internal Audit Function from 2005 to 2021. The USL, as a Public Sector entity, must comply with various laws and policies, such as the Public Financial Management Act 2018 and the USL Accounting Manual. However, the Internal Audit function, which should ensure compliance, is insufficient.
The study aimed to assess the internal controls that the USL has in place. The researchers collected data from selected respondents using simple random and quota sampling, interviews, and questionnaires. The data was displayed using narratives, tables, and diagrams.
The study found that the USL has good internal controls and competent internal audit staff. Nevertheless, the researchers suggested that the Internal Audit function should be outsourced, and that the USL should show more genuine support for internal controls from the top management. The study also recommended that future research should evaluate the internal audit staff’s dedication and the control environment.

Keywords: University of Sierra Leone (USL), Internal Controls, Accounting Policies, Accounting principles,

Suggested Citation:

Kamara, Abu Kai, A Study of the Internal Audit Function of the University of Sierra Leone (March 31, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4779559 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4779559
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
47 References
Fourah Bay College Posted: 2018-08-09
Jean Kopytoff , Herskovits
A Preface to Modern Nigeria: The "Sierra Leoneans" in Yoruba, 1830-1890
Michael Crowder
Institute of African Studies, Fourah Bay College, Sierra Leone
The Journal of Modern Sierra Leone Studies , volume 4 , issue 1 , p. 95 - 96 Posted: 1966
Marcus Liddell
Christian Cole: Oxford University's first black student Posted: 2017-10-18
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
422
47 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies