Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Regulatory responses to build charity financial resilience: ‘Tow Truck’ or ‘Guardian Angel’?

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

Posted: 4 Apr 2024

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

David Yates

Sheffield Hallam University - Sheffield Business School

Date Written: April 1, 2024

Abstract

Charity regulation is increasing internationally, leading to divergent views on what might constitute ‘better regulation’. The purpose of a charity regulator and appropriate regulation may also be contested. Many modern charity regulators are required to maintain public trust and confidence in charities in order to bolster ongoing charity support from funders and the donating public. Nevertheless, public trust and confidence is precarious. At its nadir, in England and Wales ‘the person in the street’ was deemed more trustworthy than charities, with donations diminishing in the current environment and the charity sector close to crisis. Further, charities contribute to crises when they incite negative media interest in their operations, fail to comply with regulatory filing deadlines, and/or manipulate their accounts.

Charity regulators must maintain legitimacy within a changing regulatory space, despite often being resource-constrained themselves. Yet, some suggest regulators could ‘do more’ to increase sector-wide resilience and to increase public trust and confidence. Hence, this raises the question of how charities should be regulated and whether (and how) a regulator could build resilience. We depict charity-sector crises as a vehicular incident and ponder: should the regulator act as a ‘Guardian Angel’ to prevent crises through interventions to build and maintain sectoral resilience, or should it appear post-incident as a ‘Tow Truck’ to clear the road for other traffic through closely bounded regulatory action focused on sanctions and de-registration. We address this question by analysing publicly available regulatory data from the Charity Commission of England and Wales and semi-structured interviews which provide additional ‘behind the scenes’ depth to our analysis and findings. We contribute to literature on charity regulation and expected regulatory responsibilities within a confined but permeable regulatory space.

Keywords: charity regulation, charity scandals, charity resilience, regulatory space, charity crisis

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Cordery, Carolyn J. and Yates, David, Regulatory responses to build charity financial resilience: ‘Tow Truck’ or ‘Guardian Angel’? (April 1, 2024). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4780580
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
161
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Political Anthropology eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies