Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Suggested Bias for International Governments to Apply An Effective Governmental Financial Reporting Model : (GASB vs.GFSM)

25 Pages Posted: 29 Apr 2024

Tamer Aly ElNashar

The American University in Cairo

Date Written: April 3, 2024

Abstract

This paper presents my view on a suggested bias for international governments to apply an effective governmental financial reporting model based on the GASB recommendations to improve the governmental financial reporting model. I set the data for this view in a manner that statistically shows how future research can investigate my view empirically in the practice field of governmental accounting and reporting taking into account my view of the suggested bias. I use two statistical models to present my view and set two hypotheses to be examined by future research, one model is based on a gage linearity and bias, and the other is based on a multiple linear discriminant model to present how the gage and the discriminant analysis can be used to express the suggested bias. My suggested results show that the suggested bias should be, on average, at least 169.3% above the international governments’ choices to the reference average of the GFSM or other regulations, and the suggested bias using the multiple linear discriminant analysis model should be for the international governments to report and apply the effective GASB recommendations of fiscal effect accounts and ratios FAR, debt’s structure accounts and ratios DSAR, footnotes for financial statement accounts FFSA, Government Accountability Office independent auditors’ report GOVACCO, and improvement of budgetary comparison and variances IBCV. Future empirical research can investigate my suggested bias in practice, where international governmental regulatory bodies will benefit from such future empirical research results to evaluate the international governmental performance to be shown in a high-quality financial reporting model that potentially will affect the growth of the international economy and sustainability.

Keywords: statistical bias, international governments, governmental financial reports, GASB, GFSM

Suggested Citation:

ElNashar, Tamer Aly, Suggested Bias for International Governments to Apply An Effective Governmental Financial Reporting Model : (GASB vs.GFSM) (April 3, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4782468 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4782468
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
7 References
P Copley
15 th ed. 2024. Essential of Accounting for Governmental and Not-for-Profit Organizations
T A Elnashar
Discriminant Analysis to the Postulated International Perspectives of Governmental Accounting and Reporting Models Posted: 2018
T A Elnashar
The Impact of the Changes in Governmental Accountability on the Change in Governmental Revenues Posted: 2022
R J Freeman , C D Shoulders , D N Mcswain , R B Scott
Governmental and Nonprofit Accounting: Theory and Practice , volume 11
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
35
ABSTRACT VIEWS
244
7 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Political Economy: Structure & Scope of Government eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies