Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 Not Available for Download
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of the Oil Fiscal Regime of Uganda

Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 11 ; p. 615-623; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fpyvvr

Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Wilson Bahati Kazi

Independent

Babra Beyeza

Independent

Date Written: October 6, 2017

Abstract

This article analyses the oil fiscal regime of Uganda, taking into account its strengths and weaknesses in terms of its effectiveness and fiscal sustainability. The authors conclude that Uganda?s fiscal regime ensures that adequate oil revenues accrue to the government, while promoting oil sector investment, and fiscal and macroeconomic stability.

Full-text Paper

Keywords: natural resources, hydrocarbon tax, mining industry, production-sharing contract, mineral taxation, corporate income tax, capital gains tax, withholding tax, stamp duty

JEL Classification: K33, K34

Suggested Citation:

Kazi, Wilson Bahati and Beyeza, Babra, An Analysis of the Oil Fiscal Regime of Uganda (October 6, 2017). Bulletin for International Taxation. - Amsterdam. - Vol. 71 (2017), no. 11 ; p. 615-623; DOI: https://doi.org/10.59403/3fpyvvr, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4787544
 Not Available for Download
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
ABSTRACT VIEWS
45
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Law & Finance eJournal

Follow

International Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies