Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Controlling the Controllers: Auditing Regulatory Performance

37 Pages Posted: 10 Apr 2024

Jacob Kringen

University of South-Eastern Norway

Ole Andreas Engen

University of Stavanger

Abstract

This paper examines a supreme audit investigation of regulatory performance. The empirical point of departure is the Norwegian Office of the Auditor General report from 2019 on the performance of the regulatory regime for health and safety in the Norwegian petroleum industry. The thematic orientation of the paper reflects the pervasive institutionalization of evaluative forms of control and monitoring as these are introduced at different levels governance and how they pile up in consecutive levels of accountability. The object of the audit is itself designed as a complex regulatory system with established and layered mechanisms for governing risk in the petroleum industry. It shares key features with new governance regulation, including goal-based rules and extensive reliance on industrial risk management and self-regulation. Enforcement policies favour critical dialogue and conditional reliance on trust. Prior evaluations have largely endorsed the overall regulatory strategies. The audit investigation departs from this diagnosis in several ways. Based on observed lack of industrial compliance after inspections, the investigation claims that these have only limited impact on industrial behaviour. It is furthermore critical of the observed lack of formal enforcement measures in cases of non-compliance. While not objecting to the empirical findings in the audit investigation, the paper argues that the audit may suffer from a simplistic and reductionistic diagnostic approach that does not sufficiently appreciate the fine-tuned and complex mechanisms involved in the regulation of high-risk industries. The paper thus contributes to current research on regulatory systems as well as to the critical audit literature

Keywords: Performance audit, Supreme audit institutions, Accountability, Newgovernance regulation

Suggested Citation:

Kringen, Jacob and Engen, Ole Andreas, Controlling the Controllers: Auditing Regulatory Performance. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4790371 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4790371
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
71 References
R Almquist , G Grossi , G J Van Helden , C Reichard
Public sector governance and accountability
Critical Perspectives on Accounting , volume 24 , p. 479 - 487 Posted: 2013
C Ansell , R Geyer
Pragmatic complexity' a new foundation for moving beyond 'evidence-based policy making'?
Policy Studies , volume 38 , issue 2 , p. 149 - 167 Posted: 2017
S Antonsen , M Nilsen , P Almklov
Regulating the intangible. Searching for safety culture in the Norwegian petroleum industry
Safety Science , volume 92 , p. 232 - 240 Posted: 2017
T Aven , O Renn
Improving government policy on risk: eight key principles. Reliability Engineering and System Safety , volume 176 , p. 230 - 241 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
347
1 Citations
71 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Governance & Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies