Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Strategizing and Calculative Practices in Crisis: Insight from a University

31 Pages Posted: 16 Apr 2024

Esin Ozdil

La Trobe University

Zahirul Hoque

Prince Sultan University

Abstract

This paper examines how strategizing and calculative processes emanate during university budget crises. Building on practice and performative perspectives, we carried out a qualitative field study at an Australian university that involved open-ended interviews, meeting observation, and archival document analysis. The study's findings show that university strategizers are constantly faced with challenges because of the shark net of competing and conflicting strategic priorities, financial targets, and university operational activities. At the same time, these social actors engage in parallel strategizing and calculative practices in the midst of a budgetary crisis. We contribute to the management accounting literature in universities by providing empirical evidence on how university strategists employ strategic planning and calculative techniques to manage their budget difficulties. We conclude that, among the financial and strategic choices on the table during the budget crisis, social actors tend to make an eventual choice that is measurable and financially sustainable, even though it may not be feasible for the strategic priority.

Keywords: Strategizing, Calculative practices, Accounting, Practice theory, Performativity, University

Suggested Citation:

Ozdil, Esin and Hoque, Zahirul, Strategizing and Calculative Practices in Crisis: Insight from a University. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795916 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795916
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
83 References
T Ahrens , C S Chapman , C S Chapman
Management control systems and the crafting of strategy: a practice-based view
Controlling strategy: management, accounting, and performance measurement , p. 106 - 124 Posted: 2005
T Ahrens , C S Chapman
Management accounting as practice
Accounting, Organizations and Society , volume 32 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 27 Posted: 2007
T Ahrens , L Ferry
Accounting and accountability practices in times of crisis: a Foucauldian perspective on the UK government's response to COVID-19 for England
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 34 , issue 6 , p. 1332 - 1344 Posted: 2021
C Begkos , S Llewellyn , K Walshe
Strategising in English hospitals: Accounting, practical coping, and strategic intent
Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal , volume 32 , issue 5 , p. 1270 - 1296 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
27
ABSTRACT VIEWS
293
83 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies