Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Dataset on the Questionnaire-Based Survey of the Readiness of Government Accountants to Implement International Public Sector Accounting Standards (Ipsas)

9 Pages Posted: 15 Apr 2024

Moawiah Awad Alghizzawi

University of Buraimi

Abstract

This article presents a data set concerning the effect of human resource and information technology on the readiness of government accountants to implement IPSAS. The data was collected by a face-to-face survey with a questionnaire using five point Likert scale. The survey sample involved 331 government accountants in Jordan. The questionnaire consists of three sections. Section A addresses the demographic attributesof the respondents. Section B contains 2 parts; part (1) measures human resource, part (2) measures information technology. Section C measures the readiness of government accountants to implement IPSAS. Each section contains seven to eight statements with a 1-5 Likert scale in order to assess respondents’ level of agreement or disagreement. The detailed data set is accompanied by the original questionnaire in English and Arabic. The data set is providing a valuable tool to understand the contributions of human resource and information technology in achieving the readiness to implement IPSAS, develop hypotheses and design a questionnaire survey.

Keywords: Questionnaire Survey, IPSAS, Human Resource, Information Technology, ‎Public Sector.‎

Suggested Citation:

Alghizzawi, Moawiah Awad, Dataset on the Questionnaire-Based Survey of the Readiness of Government Accountants to Implement International Public Sector Accounting Standards (Ipsas). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4795028 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4795028
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
19 References
Supplementary Data: readiness of government accountants to implement IPSAS
Mendeley Data , issue 2 Posted: 2024
E Babakus , W G Mangold
Adapting the SERVQUAL Scale to Hospital Services: an Empirical Investigation , volume 26 , p. 767 - 786 Posted: 1992
Anick Bosmans , Rik Pieters , Hans Baumgartner
The Get Ready Mind-Set: How Gearing Up for Later Impacts Effort Allocation Now
Journal of Consumer Research , volume 37 , p. 98 - 107 Posted: 2010
C E Brown
Applied multivariate statistics in geohydrology and related sciences Posted: 2012
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
69
ABSTRACT VIEWS
180
RANK
778,745
19 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Other Accounting Research eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies