Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Using Turnover Size to Determine Charities' Reporting Requirements: Should Turnover Size Metrics Drive Reporting Regimes?

AASB Research Centre Working Paper 24-03

28 Pages Posted: 17 Apr 2024

Han Wen

The University of Western Australia

David Gilchrist

The University of Western Australia - UWA Business School

Prerana Agrawal

University of Western Australia

Lyndie Bayne

The University of Western Australia

Date Written: April 17, 2024

Abstract

The Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) and the sector itself has expressed concern that charities are burdened with excessive financial obligations when preparing their financial reports. Indeed, all parties are keen to ensure reporting requirements support an efficient and effective governance framework. Despite this, the existing literature offers limited insights into the challenges charities face in complying with these regulatory obligations from the perspective of the preparers. We interviewed eight experienced charities’ financial report preparers to understand the utility of charity financial reports under current regulatory obligations. This paper contributes to the literature in four important ways. It demonstrates that the newly modified ACNC reporting thresholds are not likely to be appropriate, that revenue is seen to be an appropriate measure to drive reporting requirements (ie. to set the threshold boundaries), we explain why charities might report more fully than the regulatory regime requires and we extend the knowledge surrounding the information needs of stakeholders.

Keywords: Charities; Accounting standards; Users’ needs; Stakeholders’ needs; Cost and benefit analysis; Accountability

Suggested Citation:

Wen, Han and Gilchrist, David and Agrawal, Prerana and Bayne, Lyndie, Using Turnover Size to Determine Charities' Reporting Requirements: Should Turnover Size Metrics Drive Reporting Regimes? (April 17, 2024). AASB Research Centre Working Paper 24-03, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4797359
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
60 References
E Alsop , G G Morgan
Financial reporting by smaller charities: drivers of the cash/accruals choice
Public Money & Management , volume 41 , issue 3 , p. 225 - 235 Posted: 2021
Australian Accounting Research Foundation and the Australian Accounting Standards Board (AARF/ AASB) (1990a), SAC 1: Definition of the Reporting Entity
Development of Simplified Accounting Requirements (Tier 3 Not-for-Profit Private Sector Entities)
5256.0 -Australian National Accounts: Nonprofit Institutions Satellite Account , p. 2012 - 2013 Posted: 2015
S Bhojraj , W G Blacconiere , J D D'souza
Voluntary Disclosure in a Multi-Audience Setting: An Empirical Investigation
The Accounting Review , volume 79 , issue 4 , p. 921 - 947 Posted: 2004
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
117
ABSTRACT VIEWS
635
RANK
549,043
60 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Australian Accounting Standards Board Research Center Working Paper Series

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies