Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
  This is a preprint article, it offers immediate access but has not been peer reviewed.
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Charity Performance Reporting and Accountability: Zooming into the Work of Regulators and Standard-Setters

37 Pages Posted: 26 Apr 2024

Cherrie Yang

Massey University

Carolyn J. Cordery

Victoria University of Wellington - School of Accounting and Commercial Law; Aston University

Abstract

Internationally, the charity sector is being challenged to improve its performance reporting and accountability. To build public trust, accounting standard-setters are developing performance reporting standards, and charity regulators work to regulate and educate charities to comply with the standards and discharge performance accountability. This study draws on interviews with accounting standard-setters and charity regulators and extensive document analysis to examine the work involved in improving charity performance reporting and accountability. Institutional work analysis shows that standard-setters and regulators undertake interconnected symbolic, material, and relational work in various ways. However, charities (especially smaller ones) face numerous constraints, contradictions, and challenges in improving performance reporting and accountability. This potentially restricts the progress of all actors towards meeting expectations and internalising performance accountability.

Keywords: performance reporting, performance accountability, charity regulators, accounting standard-setters, institutional work

Suggested Citation:

Yang, Cherrie and Cordery, Carolyn J., Charity Performance Reporting and Accountability: Zooming into the Work of Regulators and Standard-Setters. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4808181 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4808181
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
41 References
References
G Agyemang , B O'dwyer , J Unerman , M Awumbila
Seeking 'conversations for accountability': Mediating the impact of non-governmental organization (NGO) upward accountability processes
Account. Auditing. Account. J , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 982 - 1007 Posted: 2017
K Boswell , A Kazimirski
Keeping it in proportion: Impact measurement for small charities Posted: 2016
O B Breen , C Cordery , D Mcconville , D Tinkelman , L Parsons
A window on the world of nonprofit accounting research
Research Handbook on Nonprofit Accounting , p. 154 - 172 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
44
ABSTRACT VIEWS
513
41 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies