Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Doing good or doing well? Drivers and strategies for impact measurement at foundations

45 Pages Posted: 30 Apr 2024

Marie-Christine Groß

TUM School of Management,Technical University of Munich

Date Written: April 22, 2024

Abstract

As philanthropic foundations strive to create societal impact with their significant, tax-exempt funds, impact measurement practices have become increasingly relevant. However, little is known about the approach of philanthropic foundations. Based on a multiple case study with ten large German foundations, the paper examines why and how impact is measured. Drawing on institutional theory, the paper develops a conceptual framework that extends the understanding of foundations' behavior regarding impact measurement and underlying drivers. The results of the analysis reveal that organizational characteristics, culture, and stakeholder demands determine the extent of engagement in impact measurement. Furthermore, foundations can be clustered in three archetypes based on their measurement strategy, ranging from detachment advocates to strategic adapters and advanced leaders. Based on the chosen strategy, organizational learning and legitimization are facilitated. Over time, these outcomes affect the resource allocation of foundations. The paper emphasizes the evolutionary trajectory of employed strategies driven by institutional pressures, illustrating that prevailing heterogeneous approaches are gradually converging towards greater unity. Given the evolving landscape of philanthropy and the societal expectations for accountability, understanding the intricacies of foundations’ behaviors in impact measurement is crucial for shaping effective strategies. Practitioners can leverage insights from this study to tailor their measurement strategy, fostering continuous learning in the social sector.

Keywords: foundations, impact measurement, accountability, nonprofit, philanthropy

JEL Classification: M41, M14, L3

Suggested Citation:

Groß, Marie-Christine, Doing good or doing well? Drivers and strategies for impact measurement at foundations (April 22, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4811927 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4811927
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Z J Acs , R J Phillips
Entrepreneurship and philanthropy in American capitalism
Small Business Economics , volume 19 , issue 3 , p. 189 - 204 Posted: 2002
Agf
Stiftungszwecke | Bundesverband Deutscher Stiftungen. Lime Flavour Posted: 2021
G Agyemang , B O'dwyer , J Unerman , M Awumbila
Seeking "conversations for accountability
Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal , volume 30 , issue 5 , p. 982 - 1007 Posted: 2017
S Aksartova
In search of legitimacy: Peace grant making of U.S. philanthropic foundations, 1988-1996. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly , volume 32 , p. 25 - 46 Posted: 2003
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
93
ABSTRACT VIEWS
507
RANK
649,230
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow

Nonprofit Organizations eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies