Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Who are you Doing Business with? Beneficial Ownership Disclosure and Public Procurement

The Wharton School Research Paper

60 Pages Posted: 14 May 2024

Carol Seregni

University of Pennsylvania - Accounting Department

Date Written: May 6, 2024

Abstract

Previous literature shows that government officials tend to allocate contracts to connected firms. However, conflicts of interest are largely unobservable because the individuals who act behind a legal entity (i.e., the beneficial owners) are often unknown. I study how the disclosure of beneficial ownership affects the allocation and outcomes of public procurement contracts. Using a difference-in-differences design around the staggered introduction of beneficial ownership registries in the European Union, I find that competition for government contracts increases after the introduction of such registries. The effect is driven by countries with the highest opacity of beneficial ownership before the mandate. Consistent with reputational concerns of government officials, I show that firms with riskier beneficial owners (i.e., that would likely raise red flags, such as politically connected people) are awarded fewer contracts relative to other firms in the same country. I explore two monitoring related mechanisms that could be driving my results – public scrutiny and administrative monitoring – and find support only for the former. In terms of contracts’ outcomes, I find evidence of the registries benefiting smaller enterprises and improving contract execution performance. Overall, I document that beneficial ownership disclosure can help mitigate potential conflicts of interest and improve competition.

Keywords: disclosure regulation, public procurement, ownership transparency, competition, contract modifications, political connections

JEL Classification: G38, H57, M41, M48

Suggested Citation:

Seregni, Carol, Who are you Doing Business with? Beneficial Ownership Disclosure and Public Procurement (May 6, 2024). The Wharton School Research Paper, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4826537 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4826537
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
39 References
I Adam , A Hernandez Sanchez , M Fazekas
Global Public Procurement Open Competition Index Posted: 2021
H J Amberger , J H Wilde , Y Wu
Ownership Transparency and Cross-Border Investment Posted: 2023
C Anesi , G Rubino , L Caregari , B Jérémie
The Secret Luxembourg Base of Italy's 'Ndrangheta Mafia Posted: 2021
A C Baker , D F Larcker , C C Wang
How much should we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 144 , issue 2 , p. 370 - 395 Posted: 2022
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
313
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,052
RANK
221,251
39 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Research Paper Series

Follow

Contracts & Commercial Law eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies