Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
 
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Essays on Responsible and Sustainable Finance

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 4840518

373 Pages Posted: 29 May 2024

Baridhi Malakar

Georgia Institute of Technology - Scheller College of Business

Date Written: May 24, 2023

Abstract

The dissertation consists of three essays on responsible and sustainable finance. I show
that local communities should be seen as stakeholders to decisions made by corporations.
In the first essay, I examine whether the imposition of fiduciary duty on municipal advisors affects bond yields and advising fees. Using a difference-in-differences analysis, I
show that bond yields reduce by 9% after the imposition of the SEC Municipal Advisor
Rule. Larger municipalities are more likely to recruit advisors after the rule is effective and
experience a greater reduction in yields. However, smaller issuers do not seem to significantly benefit from the SEC Rule in terms of offering yield. Instead, their borrowing cost
increases if their primary advisor exits the market. Using novel hand-collected data, I find
that the average advising fees paid by issuers does not increase after the regulation. Offering yields reduce due to lower markup at the time of underwriting, driven by issuers for
whom advisors play a more significant ex-ante role in selecting underwriters. Overall, my
results suggest that while fiduciary duty may mitigate the principal-agent problem between
some issuers and advisors, it has a limited effect on small issuers.
In the second essay, we analyze the impact of $40 billion of corporate subsidies given by
U.S. local governments on their borrowing costs. We find that winning counties experience
a 15.2 bps increase in bond yield spread as compared to the losing counties. The increase
in yields is higher (18 – 26 bps) when the subsidy deal is associated with a lower jobs
multiplier or when the winning county has a lower debt capacity. However, a high jobs
multiplier does not seem to alleviate the debt capacity constraints of local governments.
Our results highlight the potential costs of corporate subsidies for local governments.
In the third essay, we provide new evidence that the bankruptcy filing of a locally headquartered and publicly-listed manufacturing firm imposes externalities on the local
governments. Compared to matched counties with similar economic trends, municipal
bond yields for affected counties increase by 10 bps within a year of the firm’s bankruptcy filing. Counties that are more economically dependent on the industry of the bankrupt firm
are more affected and do not immediately recover from the negative impact of the corporate
bankruptcy. Our results highlight that local communities are major stakeholders in public
firms and how they are adversely affected by corporate financial distress.
The final essay examines whether managers walk the talk on the environmental and social discussion. We train a deep-learning model on various corporate sustainability frameworks to construct a comprehensive Environmental and Social (E&S) dictionary. Using
this dictionary, we find that the discussion of environmental topics in the earnings conference calls of U.S. public firms is associated with higher pollution abatement and more
future green patents. Similarly, the discussion of social topics is positively associated with
improved employee ratings. The association with E&S performance is weaker for firms
that give more non-answers and when the topic is immaterial to the industry. Overall, our
results provide some evidence that firms do walk their talk on E&S issues.

Keywords: Municipal Bonds, ESG, Deep Learning, NLP

JEL Classification: H74, G30, M14, G14, Q52, Q53, Q55

Suggested Citation:

Malakar, Baridhi, Essays on Responsible and Sustainable Finance (May 24, 2023). Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper No. 4840518, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4840518 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4840518
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
172 References
* * * -2
19 * * * -1.67 * * * -1.58 * * * -1.67 * * * -1.66 * * * -1.47 * * * -1.46 * * *
* , *
In Table B2.12, we use the ratio of the subsidy offered to the number of jobs promised at the deal level. We interact the baseline Equation (4.1) with dummies corresponding to above and below median levels of the subsidy-to-jobs-ratio. In Columns (1)-(2), we show results with after-tax yield spread from the secondary market as the dependent variable. We find that the impact on yields is higher (19.09 bps in Column (2)) when the deal is above the median value of the subsidy-to-jobs ratio. We find similar results when we use the offering yield of new municipal bonds from the primary market as the dependent variable. In fact, the primary offering yields actually reduce for subsidy deals with low subsidy-to-jobs ratio. . First, in Table B2.13, we show results using the logged value of the county-level house price index from the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) as the dependent variable. In Columns (1) and (2), we show results around three and five years of the subsidy announcement, respectively. We find that there is an aggregate increase in prices, as indicated by the positive coefficient on the Post dummy. However, the differential effect on winning counties seems to be negative. Further, in Columns (3) and (4), we show estimates from the interaction of the main coefficient with dummies corresponding to five years in Columns (1) and (2), respectively. Subsequently, the estimates in Columns (3) and (4) do not show much difference between low versus high debt capacity winning counties. This table reports the baseline results similar to Table 3.2 for our sample using Equation (4.1), with trading volume as the dependent variable. Columns (1)-(2) show the results for a sub-sample of customer buy trades. Columns (3)-(4) show the results for a sub-sample of customer sell trades. Finally, Columns (5)-(6) use the sum total of buy and sell trades
Winner × Post 27 , volume 288 , p. 33 - 55
R Doty , M Simpkins , L Norwood , N Singer , L Kommi
Regulation and your consultants: Drawing the line
Municipal Finance Journal , volume 38 , issue 4 Posted: 2018
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
78
ABSTRACT VIEWS
695
RANK
724,439
172 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Research Paper Series

Follow

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies