Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Resilience and Adaptation of Third Sector Organisations (TSOs) During Crisis Situations: Insights from a West African Economy

26 Pages Posted: 11 Jun 2024

Temitope Fagbemi

Robert Gordon University - Aberdeen Business School

Oluwatoyin Dosumu

The University of Manchester

Rasheed Adigun

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

Franklin Nakpodia

Durham University

Rilwan Sakariyahu

University of Dundee School of Business

Date Written: April 27, 2024

Abstract

Across the globe, third sector organisations (TSOs) have long been recognised for their significant contributions to community support and sustainable development. However, their vulnerability to socio-economic challenges, exemplified by the Covid-19 pandemic, prompts a deeper examination. This study employs semi-structured interviews to explore the resilience and adaptation strategies of TSOs operating in Nigeria, a West African country facing unique challenges. Findings reveal an intricate blend of traditional and innovative approaches, including strategic capabilities, digital citizenship, cultural dynamics, and community participation, employed by TSOs to navigate the uncertainties triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. By uncovering these less-explored resilience dimensions, the study offers valuable insights for TSOs, policymakers, and scholars seeking to understand and enhance organisational resilience in challenging economic and social contexts.

Keywords: Third sector organisations, resilience, Covid-19, digital citizenship, culture, community

Declaration of Interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

JEL Classification: M4

Suggested Citation:

Fagbemi, Temitope and Dosumu, Oluwatoyin and Adigun, Rasheed and Nakpodia, Franklin and Sakariyahu, Rilwan, Resilience and Adaptation of Third Sector Organisations (TSOs) During Crisis Situations: Insights from a West African Economy (April 27, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4857654 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4857654
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
86 References
J Amankwah-Amoah , N Boso , J K Kutsoati
Institutionalization of protection for intangible assets: Insights from the counterfeit and pirated goods trade in sub-Saharan Africa
Journal of World Business , volume 57 , issue 2 Posted: 2022
M M Archibald , R C Ambagtsheer , M G Casey , M Lawless
Using Zoom videoconferencing for qualitative data collection: perceptions and experiences of researchers and participants
International Journal of Qualitative Methods , volume 18 , p. 1 - 8 Posted: 2019
F Ashiru , E Adegbite , F Nakpodia , N Koporcic
Relational governance mechanisms as enablers of dynamic capabilities in Nigerian SMEs during the COVID-19 crisis
Industrial Marketing Management , volume 105 , p. 18 - 32 Posted: 2022
F Ashiru , F Nakpodia , J J You
Adapting emerging digital communication technologies for resilience: Evidence from Nigerian SMEs
Annals of Operations Research , volume 327 , p. 795 - 823 Posted: 2023
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
37
ABSTRACT VIEWS
311
86 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies