Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Drivers of sustainability reporting by local governments over time: A structured literature review

30 Pages Posted: 11 Jul 2024

André Mol

VU University Amsterdam - School of Business and Economics

Vera van Schie

VU University Amsterdam - School of Business and Economics

Tjerk Budding

VU University Amsterdam - School of Business and Economics

Date Written: June 17, 2024

Abstract

This article provides an overview of the current state of the literature on sustainability reporting by local governments. It focuses on the reasons why municipalities use sustainability reporting and what contingency factors incentivize or disincentivize its implementation. The study is based on a structured literature review of 190 papers, published in journals on business, environment and accountancy, covering a 35-year period (1987–2021). We find that sustainability reporting by local governments can be explained from interrelated theoretical perspectives, mainly legitimacy, stakeholder, institutional and accountability theory. The implementation of sustainability reporting is influenced by contextual factors; the main determinants are organizational and political variables. Based on the papers we reviewed, we provide policy recommendations to improve sustainability reporting in practice and make suggestions for future research.

Suggested Citation:

Mol, André and van Schie, Vera and Budding, Tjerk, Drivers of sustainability reporting by local governments over time: A structured literature review (June 17, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4885851 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4885851
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
93 References
F Alcaraz-Quiles , A Navarro-Galera , D Ortiz-Rodríguez
Factors determining online sustainability reporting by local governments
International Review of Administrative Sciences , volume 81 , issue 1 , p. 79 - 109 Posted: 2015
F Alcaraz-Quiles , A Navarro-Galera , D Ortiz-Rodríguez
The contribution of the right to information laws in Europe to local government transparency on sustainability
International Environmental Agreements: Politics, Law and Economics , volume 20 , p. 161 - 178 Posted: 2020
J Alpenberg , T Wnuk-Pel
The use of environmental performance indicators in "the greenest city in Europe
Baltic Journal of Management , volume 14 , issue 1 , p. 122 - 140 Posted: 2019
M Araos , L Berrang-Forda , J Forda , S Austina , R Biesbroek , A Lesnikowskia
Climate change adaptation planning in large cities: A systematic global assessment
Environmental Science & Policy , volume 66 , p. 375 - 382 Posted: 2016
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
60
ABSTRACT VIEWS
490
RANK
841,369
1 Citations
93 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies