Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Integration Report and Sustainability Report as a Means of Management Accountability for Project Managers that Influence Good Public Governance in State Universities that Receive Construction Development Loans from Foreign Donor Institutions

25 Pages Posted: 6 Aug 2024

Petrolis Nusa Perdana

Independent

Date Written: July 09, 2024

Abstract

Purpose-Multi-influence in the accounting context today attracts a lot of discussion, however many questions still arise. This is by remembering that "influence" can significantly influence various accounting considerations and decisions in different ways theoretically, so the aim of this experiment is to understand existing accounting concepts in their influence on integrated and sustainability reports to realize Good Universities Governance. (GUG) universities in Central Java province and identify directions for future research. 



Design/methodology/approach-This experimental study systematically reviews accounting papers dealing with influence, both in theoretical and functional terms. The researcher first describes the effect of infusion theory as the basis for the theory. Then, presents the sampling method. In the literature review section, researchers will conceptually and factually compile the influence on research from accounting papers in four main functional areas: auditing, managerial/corporate accounting, taxation and financial accounting. The implications of the moderating variables examined in several papers are also discussed. Finally, the researcher will conclude by reviewing the importance of "influence in the accounting context" at several universities in Central Java. 


Findings-Throughout the synthesis, the authors provide future research opportunities with respect to theories, each functional area and other gaps in the accounting literature. 


Originality/value-This synthesis contributes to the accounting literature by providing a pathway to understand the development of accounting research on affect, integrating theoretical foundations and offering future research opportunities to advance the accounting literature.

Keywords: Affect, Mood, Emotion, Accounting, GUG, Affect infusion theory Paper Type Research Paper

Suggested Citation:

Nusa Perdana, Petrolis, Integration Report and Sustainability Report as a Means of Management Accountability for Project Managers that Influence Good Public Governance in State Universities that Receive Construction Development Loans from Foreign Donor Institutions (July 09, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4890264
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
40
ABSTRACT VIEWS
253
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies