Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
The Financial Economics of Spaceflight

46 Pages Posted: 26 Aug 2024 Last revised: 3 Mar 2025

William L. Megginson

University of Oklahoma

Date Written: September 02, 2024

Abstract

This study presents a financial economics analysis of the global Space Economy, with annual revenues of around $600 billion (0.6% of global GDP). Commercial products and services represent three-fourths of space economy revenues, while government orders account for one-fourth. I categorize the space economy along an entrepreneurial spectrum, ranging from: (1) a Pure Science and Exploration sector, wherein projects are sponsored exclusively by national space agencies and financed solely with government contracts; through (2) a Military sector, also exclusively sponsored and funded (often secretly) by national military and intelligence organizations; to (3) a Human Space Exploration sector, with mixed government and commercial oversight and funding, currently focused on Earth-orbiting space stations but anticipating lunar and Martian visits; and (4) a Commercial sector, funded and operated by private companies that launch and operate satellites, provide communications and Earth-monitoring services, and collect and sell data thus produced. Since the Space Shuttle ended in 2011, national space agencies, especially NASA, have increasingly relied on private companies to provide space services under fixed price contracts. There has also been a massive decline in launch costs, from $18,500/kg to $1,400/kg, driven mostly by SpaceX’s relentless pursuit of efficiency, scale, and rocket reusability. Far more than in most other capital-intensive industries, the space economy is dominated by private (unlisted) companies; relies far more than most industries on government contracts and venture capital for funding, rather than external debt and retained earnings; and faces very high bankruptcy costs due to extreme asset-specificity and rapid obsolescence.

Keywords: Space exploration, satellites, rockets, venture capital JEL Classifications: H5, L1, O3, O32, O38

Suggested Citation:

Megginson, William L., The Financial Economics of Spaceflight (September 02, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4901992 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4901992
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
74 References
Acharya , V Viral , T Sreedhar , Anand Bharath , Srinivasan
Does Industry-Wide Distress Affect Defaulted Firms? Evidence from Creditor Recoveries
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 85 , issue 3 , p. 787 - 821 Posted: 2007-09
Tim Adam , Chitru Fernando
Hedging, Speculation, and Shareholder Value
Journal of Financial Economics , volume 81 , p. 283 - 309 Posted: 2006
Can Space Mining Alleviate Shortages of Key Resources?
Financial Times Posted: 2023-09-03
Chad Anderson
The Space Economy Posted: 2023
Load more
1 Citations
Richard O. Ocaya , Thembinkosi D. Malevu
Space debris is falling from the skies. We need to tackle this growing danger
Nature , volume 639 , issue 8055 , p. 571 Posted: 2025
Crossref
Load more
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
611
ABSTRACT VIEWS
3,150
RANK
101,005
1 Citations
74 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Valuation, Capital Budgeting & Investment Policy eJournal

Follow

Capital Markets: Market Microstructure eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies