Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Does Trade Protectionism Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance?

47 Pages Posted: 23 Jul 2024

Omrane Guedhami

University of South Carolina - Moore School of Business

Jing (Jade) He

Renmin University of China, School of Business

Xinming Li

University of South Carolina, Darla Moore School of Business, Department of Finance

Daxuan Zhao

Renmin University of China - School of Business

Date Written: July 13, 2024

Abstract

In 2018, the U.S. implemented several waves of increases in the import tariff targeting specific products and countries, thus altering import competition in various industries. Using increases in the U.S. import tariff as a natural experiment, we examine the impacts of competition on tax avoidance among U.S. manufacturing firms. The results show that increases in the import tariff are associated with a reduction in the degree of tax avoidance among U.S. firms, with the effect being more pronounced for firms facing financial constraints, holding dominant positions in the product market, and where managers have high-powered incentive compensation structures.

Keywords: Trade War, Tax Avoidance, Competition, Trade Protectionism, Managerial Incentives

JEL Classification: F14, G30, H25, H26

Suggested Citation:

Guedhami, Omrane and He, Jing and Li, Xinming and Zhao, Daxuan, Does Trade Protectionism Affect Corporate Tax Avoidance? (July 13, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4901456 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4901456
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
69 References
P Aghion , N Bloom , R Blundell , R Griffith , P Howitt
Competition and innovation: An inverted-U relationship
The Quarterly Journal of Economics , volume 120 , issue 2 , p. 701 - 728 Posted: 2005
E Alden
Trump: Reckless free trader or genuine protectionist?
Intereconomics , volume 53 , issue 4 , p. 239 - 240 Posted: 2018
C S Armstrong , J L Blouin , A D Jagolinzer , D F Larcker
Corporate governance, incentives, and tax avoidance
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 60 , issue 1 , p. 1 - 17 Posted: 2015
C S Armstrong , S Glaeser , J D Kepler
Strategic reactions in corporate tax planning
Journal of Accounting and Economics , volume 68 , issue 1 Posted: 2019
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
150
ABSTRACT VIEWS
640
RANK
448,944
69 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

S&P Global Market Intelligence Research Paper Series

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies