Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Your Tax Dollars at Work: The Effectiveness of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program

Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming

33 Pages Posted: 20 Sep 2024

William Cather

Oklahoma State University - Stillwater - School of Accounting

Erica E. Harris

Florida International University (FIU)

Miles A. Romney

Florida State University - College of Business

Date Written: August 16, 2024

Abstract

As of March 2024, the Federal government has forgiven $62.5 billion of Federal student loans for over 871,000 individuals—roughly $72,000 per borrower—enrolled in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program. We study the impact of the PSLF program on nonprofit effectiveness. We find the program ratio, defined as the proportion of dollars directed toward mission fulfilment, increases after PSLF implementation. Additionally, we document program ratios increase because of newly hired program employees, consistent with nonprofits expanding their workforce to provide more mission related services. Finally, we estimate the incremental program employee output attributable to the PSLF program, finding it exceeds the average loan forgiveness by the Federal government in 94% of nonprofits in our sample. Overall, we provide evidence consistent with the PSLF program promoting nonprofit employment and increasing organizational effectiveness across the nonprofit sector.

Keywords: Nonprofit, Program Ratio, Student Loan, Public Service Loan Forgiveness, IRS Form 990

Suggested Citation:

Cather, William and Harris, Erica E. and Romney, Miles A., Your Tax Dollars at Work: The Effectiveness of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (August 16, 2024). Journal of the American Taxation Association, Forthcoming, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4932656
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
28 References
Public Service Loan Forgiveness Posted: 2020
W Baber , A Roberts , G Visvanathan
Charitable organizations' strategies and program spending ratios
Accounting Horizons , volume 15 , issue 4 , p. 329 - 343 Posted: 2001
A Beck , S Garven , M Yetman
Do Donors Value Volunteer Commitment in Assessing Nonprofit Effectiveness? Posted: 2024
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Posted: 2013
Load more
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
186
ABSTRACT VIEWS
973
RANK
375,436
28 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies