Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Ramsey, Ramsay, Schelling and Starmer VAT and the Optimal Provision, Taxation, Subsidization and Suppression of UK Private and State School Education

103 Pages Posted: 25 Sep 2024 Last revised: 19 Nov 2024

Rupert Macey-Dare

St Cross College - University of Oxford; Middle Temple; Minerva Chambers

Date Written: September 06, 2024

Abstract

The UK Labour government’s proposed imposition of VAT on private school fees and business rates on schools + removal of charitable status, represents an indirect financial attack on 4 overlapping groups of people. These are remainer private parents who will face increasing school fees and reduced family spending power; the affected pupils themselves; the private schools whose costs will rise and net fee income fall; and private school teachers who will be laid off with the contraction of private schools and not replaced pro rata in the state sector. These 4 interlinked groups- private parents, pupils, teachers and schools, form pillars of UK conservative education culture, and so Labour’s proposed tax reforms constitute a fundamental political attack  on this culture.

Moreover unless Conservative and other politicians fight back, then arguably this is likely to be the thin end of the tax wedge for Labour governments, that could easily move on to tax university fee payments on the large annual flow of university students, and extra private school graduate taxes on the incomes of the stock of privately educated high wage workers in the economy and then wealth taxes as well.

From the perspectives of a tax designed to suppress and disincentivize the whole private education sector and to introduce and normalize punitively taxing private education and its consumers, the Labour proposals are likely to be highly effective.

However, as net tax raising measures, the proposed addition of VAT on private schools fees may be surprisingly inefficient and only raise c.1/3 of the target tax take. This is likely to be because of the underestimated switching effect of parents from the private to state school sector and the price elasticity of demand for private education from marginal parents, and the impacts from the downsizing of the private school sector. So from the Ramsey optimal taxation perspective, Labour’s VAT proposals for private schools are likely to be highly inefficient.

From a Ramsay perspective, the anti-tax avoidance provisions in the proposed legislation, are also likely to be circumvented not illegally but perfectly legally by parents switching from paid private to apparently “free” state sector education provision. This will likely be significantly compounded by increased state education costs from increasing pupil numbers and decreased tax take from private school teachers laid off when these private schools downsize or offshore.

School switcher parents are also likely to invest instead in housing inside the catchment areas of high performing state schools leading to a Schelling type housing segregation effect, working through competitive housing markets.

However from a Prime Minister Starmer perspective, the proposed VAT proposals for private schools are likely to be highly effective in suppressing the private education sector and attacking conservative values and signalling to left wing supporters that the old class war is alive and well, and more dangerously long term in opening the door to a raft of potential future incremental taxes, specifically designed to tax the spending, income and wealth of privately and elitely educated British taxpayers.

Keywords: VAT, tax, private school, public, state, grammar, comprehensive, day, boarder, Ramsey, Ramsay, Starmer, Phillipson, Schelling, segregation, Lord Pannick KC

Suggested Citation:

Macey-Dare, Rupert, Ramsey, Ramsay, Schelling and Starmer VAT and the Optimal Provision, Taxation, Subsidization and Suppression of UK Private and State School Education (September 06, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4937175
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
104 References
Labour's tax plans fuel demand for homes near grammar schools Posted: 2024
M Jackson
Grammar schools braced for surge in demand as Labour plans to tax private educa on fees-Private schools could face an exodus of pupils under a plan to include educa on costs in VAT
H Bodkin
Labour a ack on private schools will overwhelm grammar schools, Tories claim-Plan to charge 20pc VAT on the independent sector is a 'vindic ve move' that will not raise money party thinks it will, says Greg Hands
J Dunn
Kent council leader calls for 11+ coaching ban review
BBC News Posted: 2013-11-08
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
468
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,612
RANK
140,484
104 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Tax eJournal

Follow

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies