Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Trends in the Audit of the District Assembly Common Fund: Evidence from MMDAs in the Traditional Ten Regions of Ghana

17 Pages Posted: 1 Oct 2024

Prince Kwabena Agyemang Antwi

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Abukari Salifu Atchulo

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Ghana

Evans Duah

Akenten Appiah-Menka University of Skills Training and Entrepreneurial Development (AAMUSTED)

Sara Agyemang Antwi

Kumasi Technical University

Date Written: August 29, 2024

Abstract

Aims: The external auditing of the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) is meant to be one of the tools for promoting accountability in the use of the nation’s scarce resources. This research sought to study the trends in the audit of the DACF: evidence from Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies (MMDAs) in the traditional ten regions of Ghana.


Study design:  The Mixed-methods design was used in this research.


Place and Duration of Study: Online repository, the Ghana Audit Service website. Audit reports from January 2015 to December 2020.


Methodology: The study analyzed the Auditor General’s annual reports of all the MMDAs in the traditional ten regions of Ghana. Content analysis was employed to gather the recurrent queries whereas E-views was used for the statistical analysis of the data on the management and utilization of the DACF that was obtained from the Ghana Audit Service website.


Results: The findings of the research were that the total irregularities recorded in each region were negatively affected by the net DACF release but positively impacted by the number of MMDAs in the region. Additionally, of the irregularities, Cash Management irregularities were recorded the most in the MMDAs; however, in monetary value, Contract Management irregularities cost the nation the most.


Conclusion: An increase in the number of MMDAs in a region may cause an increase in the total irregularities reported whereas an increase in the net DACF release may cause a decrease in the total irregularities reported in the various regions. The study had recommendations for policymakers, practice, and further studies.

Keywords: District assemblies common fund, external auditing, cash management, contract management, local government, financial management

Declaration of Interest

The authors declare that no competing interests exist.

Suggested Citation:

Antwi, Prince Kwabena Agyemang and Atchulo, Abukari Salifu and Duah, Evans and Agyemang Antwi, Sara, Trends in the Audit of the District Assembly Common Fund: Evidence from MMDAs in the Traditional Ten Regions of Ghana (August 29, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4940831 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4940831
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
27 References
E M Azila-Gbettor , H P Adjimah , S K Tibu
Fiscal decentralization and poverty reduction: Citizens view
Journal of Social Economics Research , volume 1 , issue 6 , p. 118 - 128 Posted: 2014
J K Hackman , J Ayarkwa , D Osei-Asibey , A Acheampong , P A Nkrumah
Bureaucratic Factors Impeding the Delivery of Infrastructure at the Metropolitan Municipal and District Assemblies (MMDAs) in Ghana
World Journal of Engineering and Technology , volume 9 , issue 3 , p. 482 - 502 Posted: 2021
A Lawson
Public financial management
GSDRC Professional Development Reading Pack Posted: 2015
V Owusu-Amponsah
Effects of the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) on socioeconomic development in Ghana: a case study of Tano-South District assembly in the Brong Ahafo Region of Ghana Posted: 2017
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
134
ABSTRACT VIEWS
1,030
RANK
492,934
27 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Corporate Finance: Governance, Corporate Control & Organization eJournal

Follow

Accounting, Corporate Governance, Law & Institutions eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies