Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
Making Sense of the Internal Audit Function: Towards Internal Controls Integration and Organizational Learning

Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management

23 Pages Posted: 8 Oct 2024

Elena Cantù

Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milano

Cecilia Langella

Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan

Ilaria Elisa Vannini

University of Florence

Date Written: December 20, 2023

Abstract

The purpose of this article is to contribute to the ongoing debate on the internal audit function in the public sector, by discussing the role that this function can play in addressing the following issues: (i) the complex and fragmented structure of internal control systems resulting from the progressive layering of multiple audit bodies and assurance providers with different standards and tools, and possible overlapping competences and activities, and (ii) the emphasis of internal controls on monitoring, which has become an end in itself, with no attention to value creation. To this end, the article examines the evidence from a research project aimed at improving the internal control system of public healthcare organizations in an Italian Region (i.e., Emilia-Romagna) which has long since reflected on public audit issues. Findings shed light on the activities and tools developed and implemented by the regional audit team and the internal auditors. The article provides some significant research contribution in that, drawing on the theoretical lens provided by Miller and Power (2013), it reveals how the internal audit function can improve integration and coordination within the internal control system and foster a risk management culture that enables organizational learning.

Keywords: internal audit, internal control system, risk management, internal controls integration, organizational learning

Funder Statement

The authors thank CERISMAS (Centro di Ricerche e Studio in Management Sanitario) for supporting the research activities.

Suggested Citation:

Cantù, Elena and Langella, Cecilia and Vannini, Ilaria Elisa, Making Sense of the Internal Audit Function: Towards Internal Controls Integration and Organizational Learning (December 20, 2023). Forthcoming in Financial Accountability & Management, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4946242 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4946242
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
73 References
M Allegrini , G D'onza , E Anessi-Pessina , E Cantù
Internal auditing and risk assessment in large Italian companies: an empirical survey
International Journal of Auditing , volume 7 , issue 3 , p. 265 - 284 Posted: 2003
M Arena , G Azzone
Internal Audit Departments: Adoption and Characteristics in Italian Companies
International Journal of Auditing , volume 11 , issue 2 , p. 91 - 114 Posted: 2007
M I Azim , S Nahar
Risk disclosure practices: Does institutional imperative matter?
Public Money & Management , volume 42 , issue 6 , p. 388 - 394 Posted: 2022
V Baard
A critical review of interventionist research
Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management , volume 7 , issue 1 , p. 13 - 45 Posted: 2010
Load more
0 Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
49
ABSTRACT VIEWS
350
73 References
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Managerial Accounting eJournal

Follow

Governmental & Nonprofit Accounting eJournal

Follow
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies