Skip to main content
Product & Services
Research Paper Series
Site Subscriptions
Sponsored Services
Jobs & Announcements
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
First Look
Subscribe
Submit a paper
Browse
Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
Blog↗
Contact
Create account
Sign in
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
 Add Paper to My Library
Share:    
An Analysis of Tax Exemption and Community Benefits for Nonprofit Hospitals in New Jersey

36 Pages Posted: 22 Oct 2024

Oluyinka Fadahunsi

Independent

Yaw M. Mensah

Rutgers Business School - Newark & New Brunswick

Date Written: September 16, 2024

Abstract

The public policy rationale for granting tax-exempt status to entities engaged in select commercial activities is that their overall benefits to society outweigh the private benefits received by stakeholders. Applied to hospitals, tax-exempt hospitals are expected to render charity care, later expanded to cover "community benefits" to justify their tax exemption status. Recent evidence from several sources indicates that taxexempt hospitals frequently do not meet the simple test of the cost of charity care or community benefits exceeding the taxes foregone. We examine whether tax-exempt hospitals meet this test in New Jersey from 2016-2018. We find that an average of 24% of nonprofit hospitals did not provide more incremental community benefits than tax exemptions. This number increased to an average of 83% percent if the criteria were changed from "community benefits to "charity care." Nonprofit hospitals contributed an average of 6.81% community benefits and-2.75% charity care after accounting for their tax savings due to their exempt status. Given these findings, we recommend reconsideration of the bill passed by the NJ State Legislature setting 12% community benefits to total expense ratio as the litmus test for nonprofit hospitals to avoid paying the state-mandated annual community service contribution, which is in lieu of property taxes to the host municipality.

Keywords: Nonprofit hospitals, for-profit hospitals, tax-exempt, community benefits, charity care, incremental

Suggested Citation:

Fadahunsi, Oluyinka and Mensah, Yaw M., An Analysis of Tax Exemption and Community Benefits for Nonprofit Hospitals in New Jersey (September 16, 2024). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4958030 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4958030
Download This Paper
 
Open PDF in Browser
0 References
0 Citations
Fetch Citations
Do you have a job opening that you would like to promote on SSRN?
Place Job Opening
Paper statistics
DOWNLOADS
85
ABSTRACT VIEWS
510
RANK
692,403
PlumX Metrics
Related eJournals

Public Economics: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow

Political Economy: Taxation, Subsidies, & Revenue eJournal

Follow
 
Feedback 
Submit a Paper 
Section 508 Text Only Pages
SSRN Quick Links
SSRN Solutions
Research Paper Series
Conference Papers
Partners in Publishing
Jobs & Announcements
Special Topic Hubs
SSRN Rankings
Top Papers
Top Authors
Top Organizations
About SSRN
Network Directors
Announcements
Contact us
FAQs
  
Copyright Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy

All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply.

We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content.

To learn more, visit Cookie settings | Your Privacy Choices. 

We use cookies that are necessary to make our site work. We may also use additional cookies to analyze, improve, and personalize our content and your digital experience. For more information, see ourCookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Accept all cookies